Rule Book

Your last village was ransacked by barbarians. You barely had time to pick up the

baby and your favorite fishing pole before they started the burning and pillaging.

You ran from that place in the dark of
night.

And wandered over a cruel desert....

But as soon as you had the first hut
built, you discovered a vast network of
caverns underground...

Braving frozen peaks and crossing a rough
sea filled with sharks.

...brimming with shiny
treasures, rare resources,
and endless adventure!
Then you found it! The perfect place to
make your new home.

2

Now, you’re organizing expeditions and building
your village above and below...

25 House Cards
1 Reputation
Board

4 Starting House
Cards

81 Goods Tokens

24 Outpost Cards

(12 fruit/fish/mushroom, 10 pots/
rope/paper, 8 ore, 7 amethyst)

7 Dice

10 Cider
Tokens

9 Key House Cards
(Notice the
Key Symbol)

1 Round Marker
20 Potion
Tokens

4 Cubes

(in 4 colors)

6 Star House Cards
1 First-Player
Card

Coins (36 ones, 6
fives, 8 tens)

(Notice the
Star Symbol)

25 Cave Cards
4 Player Boards

1 Encounter Book (not pictured)

12 Starting Villagers
18 Villagers
6 Special Villagers
3

Setting up the Game
1. Give each player a player board, seven coins, 1
starting house card, and 1 of each type of starting
villager (3 villagers total for each player). The
starting villagers have a house on the back of the
token. The 3 villagers should have the symbols
depicted at “1A” (opposite page), and start in the
large grass area furthest to the left on the player
board--the “ready area”.

If playing with four players, place the two
starting villagers that do not have a hammer symbol in the
grass area with a moon symbol--the “exhausted area”. (In
the first round of play, each player will only be able to use
one villager. The two villagers that start in the exhausted
area will move to the “ready area” at the end of round
one. The symbol pictured below can be found on the
reputation board next to the round track and is meant to
remind you of this rule.)

6. Shuffle the cave cards and place them in a pile

face up next to the reputation board.

7. Give each player a wooden cube that matches

the color of the banner in the top left corner of their
player board. Each player places this cube on the
torch space on the reputation board.

8. Decide who will be the first player. Turn order
is in clockwise direction. Give the first player the
first-player card.

If playing with two players, give the second
player one extra coin.

If playing with three players, give the second

and third players one extra coin.

If playing with four players, give the fourth

player one extra coin.

2. Place the 6 star house cards face up on the table

in a row. Shuffle the 9 key house cards and draw 4
at random, placing them in a row, face up, below the
star house cards. The remaining key house cards are
placed in the box and are not used for this game.

3.

Put the reputation board in the center of the
table. Put any unused starting villagers in the box.
Place the special villagers aside (special villagers
have a cave on the back of the token). Place the
remaining villagers face down in a pile and draw five,
putting them along the top of the reputation board
in a row.

9. Shuffle the house cards and the outpost cards

and place them in two piles face down underneath
the reputation board. Draw the top four cards of
each deck and place them face up in a row next to
their respective decks.

10. Place the encounter book and dice near the
play area.

4. Place the round marker on the top chamber in
the string of seven caves on the reputation board.

5.Place the coin tokens, goods tokens, cider

tokens, and potion tokens near the side. This is the
supply. Place one cider token on the reputation
board in the area with a cider symbol.

4

For examples and videos of how this game is played, visit:
www.redravengames.com/aboveandbelow

2.

1A

1.
3.
4.

8.

5.

6.

9.

7.

5

Playing the Game
Above and Below is played in rounds.
Each round, players take turns assigning their
villagers to take actions. When a player wishes to
take no more actions in the round, he states that
he wishes to pass. When all players have passed,
the round ends (this means that some players will
sometimes have more turns than others).
After seven rounds, the game is over.

Perform the following steps each round.

1. Player Actions:

Starting
with the first player (the player with the first-player
card) and continuing in clockwise order, each player
may take one action per turn until all players have
passed. The available actions are:

Explore

Villagers explore the cavern in an attempt to find a
place for an underground outpost.

You descend a deep chasm until you reach a wide, dark
chamber. Rancid, cloudy water covers the cave floor,
and soon you see glowing red eyes in all directions. You
raise your lantern and realize that you’re surrounded
by giant rats, their brown, oily coats slick and wet.
They close in, ready to make your party their next meal.
Do you try to run and hide from the rats, or do you
stand and fight?
RUN AND HIDE: Explore 3 (coin), Explore 4
(mushroom)
STAND AND FIGHT: Explore 7 (five coins, ore)
After reading the description, the reader reads the
two available choices like this: “Run and hide-explore 3 or 4. Stand and fight-- explore 7.”

The active player then selects one of the available
choices (for example: “run and hide”). He must state
aloud his choice. The active player must then attempt
to meet or exceed at least one of the explore numbers
following that choice.

The active player rolls one die for each villager that
was sent into the cavern (on the cave card). He must
indicate for which villager he is rolling each time
he rolls. Once rolled, he places the die on the villager.
The amount of lanterns gained by the villager
depends on the roll, as described below:

First, the player draws a cave card from the top of
the cave card deck and places it to the left of his
player board (near the rocks in the corner). He then A roll of 1
or more
slides two or more villagers from the ready area on
gives one
his player board to the card (there is no limit to the
lantern
amount of villagers he may send exploring, but he
(1 explore).
must send at least two).
He then rolls a die and compares it to the grid of
numbers on the lower half of the new cave card-- the
resulting number indicates which paragraph should
be read to him from the encounter book. The player
to his left turns to the indicated paragraph in the
encounter book and reads it to him. The reader reads
the entire paragraph, including any choices below
the description (in BOLD CAPS) AND the associated
explore numbers. The only thing the reader does
not read aloud are the possible rewards after each
explore number (in parentheses).
An encounter paragraph might look like this:

6

A roll of 3
or more
gives two
lanterns
(2 explore).

This villager could give either 1
or 2 lanterns (not 3).
After all dice have been rolled, the player adds the
total number of lanterns from his villagers. If the
total is equal to or greater than one of the explore
numbers associated with his choice, he succeeds. If
he does not have a sufficient number of lanterns, or
he wants more lanterns to reach a higher explore
number, he may then choose to Exert one or more of
the villagers from the cave card to gain extra lanterns.

Place Goods
that you
want to sell
here.
Explore Action
(you
need at least
Player
2 villagers)
Color

Starting Income
(increases when
you place goods in
the advancement
track)

Village points
you gain for
each good in
this slot. The
coin symbol
on the right is
your current
income.

Harvest
Action

Ready
Area

Build Action
(you need a
villager with a
hammer)

Train Action

(you need a
villager with a
quill)

Exhausted
Area

Labor Action

Injured
Area

7

To Exert a villager, the player removes the villager
from the cave card and places him or her in the
injured area on his player board. Each exerted
villager gives the player one extra lantern.

If the final total of lanterns meets or exceeds one of
the explore numbers associated with the player’s
choice, he succeeds and gains the rewards from the
highest-reached explore number.

For example, if the player chose “run and hide” from
the explore paragraph on page six, and he rolled a
total of 5 lanterns, he would gain the reward from
“Explore 4”: a mushroom.

After the player gains the reward, he moves any
villagers remaining on the cave card to the exhausted
area on his player board. He places the cave card
to the right of his player board, underneath his row
of houses, in the same row as other cave cards and
outposts he already owns.

Card Cost

If a player wants to purchase an outpost, he must
have an open, available cave card (that he gained from
a previous explore action). He places the new outpost
on top of the available cave card.
Houses, key houses, and star houses are placed in a
row next to the starting house.

Outposts are placed in a row underneath the row of
houses.

If the player does not have enough lanterns to
meet or exceed at least one of the explore numbers
associated with his choice, he fails and does not gain
the cave card or any rewards. He moves any villagers
remaining on the cave card to the exhausted area of
his player board and puts the cave card at the bottom
of the cave card deck. Some paragraphs have failure
descriptions, which must be read if a player fails a
specific choice. If the failure description includes a
penalty, this is applied to the player.
NOTE: For more details on reading encounters, see
the first page of the encounter book.

Build

A villager builds a house, a star house, a key house, or
an outpost.

First, the player slides one of his villagers from the
ready area of his player board to the exhausted area
of his player board. The villager must have a hammer
symbol.
The player may then choose to purchase one of the
available house cards, star house cards, key house
cards, or outpost cards. He must pay an amount of
coins to the supply equal to the cost of the card.

8

Houses, key houses, star houses, and outposts give
the player a special ability, increased income, and/or
other benefits. These are described in the “Symbols”
section on pages 14-15.

After the player has finished placing his new card, if
he built a house or outpost, he then must draw a new
card so that there are four available choices for the
next player.

Harvest
Villagers harvest goods from houses or outposts.

First, the player slides one or more of his villagers
from the ready area of his player board to the
exhausted area of his player board.

For each villager the player exhausts, he may take one
goods token from one of his houses or outposts. He
places that good next to his coins and may either keep
it there for later, place it for sale in the top left corner
of his player board, or place it in his advancement
track.
Placing goods in the advancement track is described
further on page 12. Selling and buying goods is
described later in the “Free Actions” section.

Train
A villager trains a new villager.

First, the player slides one of his villagers from the
ready area of his player board to the exhausted area
of his player board. The villager must have a quill
symbol.

Labor
Villagers labor to gain more coins.

First, the player slides one or more of his villagers
from the ready area of his player board to the
exhausted area of his player board.

For each villager the player exhausts, he gains one
coin. Additionally, the first player to labor each round
gains the cider token on the reputation board. If there
is no cider on the reputation board, the player only
gains coins.

Free Actions
Free actions can be performed on a player’s turn
without exhausting villagers. A player may perform
as many free actions as he likes before he performs a
normal action. After he performs a normal action, he
may not perform any free actions.

Buy From a Player

The player may then pay to train a new villager
from the reputation board. He may select any of the
available villagers. He must pay the cost in coins to
the supply. The cost is listed on the reputation board
below each villager.

A player may purchase from another player any good,
cider, or potion that has been placed for sale in the
top left corner of the seller’s player board. The player
may bargain, make offers, etc, but may only pay in
coins, and he must pay at least 3 coins. The seller may
refuse the offer for any reason. If the seller agrees to
sell the good, potion, or cider, the player pays him the
agreed upon amount of coins and takes the good.

The player does not draw a new villager for the
reputation board. (This will be done at the end of the
round.)

A player may place one of his goods, a cider, or a
potion for sale by placing it in the circle at the top
left corner of his player board. Other players may
attempt to purchase it on their turns.

The player places the newly-trained villager in the
exhausted area of his player board.

Put Something for Sale

A player may remove the good that is for sale, or
replace it with something else, only on his turn.

A player may only have one good for sale at a time.

9

Refresh Building Row

If a player wants new options of houses or outposts
to purchase, he may pay one coin to replace all four
available cards in one of the rows. He takes the four
current houses or outposts in the row and places
them at the bottom of the deck, then draws four new
cards from the top of the deck and places them face
up in the row. He may do this only once per turn.
It is not possible to refresh the key houses or star
houses.

Pass
When a player is done taking actions, he declares
“I pass”. He may not take any more actions or free
actions in this round.

A player that does not have any villagers in the ready
area of his player board at the start of his turn must
choose to pass. He may take free actions before he
passes.

2. End the Round:

Rest Villagers

Now all players may refresh the villagers on their
player boards.

First, players may spend any potions or ciders. If a
player spends a potion, he may move one villager
from the injured area to the exhausted area. If a
player spends a cider, he may move one villager from
the exhausted area to the ready area. A player may
use both a potion and cider on the same villager.

Now, players may move one villager from injured to
exhausted, or from exhausted to ready for each bed he
has on his house and outpost cards. A villager cannot
sleep in two beds (the villager wouldn’t be able to
move from injured to ready by using two beds).

Collect Income

Now all players collect coins based on their income
level. Players start at 4 income, but their income level
increases depending on the number of different goods
in their advancement track at the bottom of their
player board.

When
all players have passed, the round ends. Follow these
steps before the next round starts:

Round Marker

Slide the round marker one chamber down the string
of seven caves on the reputation board. If the round
marker cannot move, the game is over. Follow the
instructions in the section titled “Game End” on page
13.

Cider

Place a cider on the cider icon on the reputation
board if it does not already have one.

New Villagers

Slide any remaining villagers on the reputation board
to the left so that they occupy the lower cost slots
and fill any open slots to their right by drawing new
villagers from the villager pile.

10

Three Goods on the Advancement Track
A player with an advancement track as depicted
above would gain 6 income instead of 4.

Players also collect income from any house or outpost
cards that give extra income.

+1 Income per round

Refresh Goods on
Buildings

If any player owns a house or outpost with an arrow
symbol next to a good, and there is currently not a
good on the card, place one of the appropriate goods
there.

Pass First-Player card
to the Left

The first player passes the first-player card to the
player on his left, who places it face up in front of him.

Start the Next Round

If seven rounds have not passed, begin the next round.

11

Other Rules
Advancement Track

A player’s advancement track is the row of circles
along the bottom of his player board. A player may
place available goods on this track at any time. He
must place goods from left to right, not leaving any
empty slots. Once a good has been placed, if the
player wishes to place another good of the same type,
it must go on the same slot (slots can contain multiple
goods of the same type). Goods can be placed in any
order.
In the example below, any future fruit goods that the
player chooses to place in the advancement track
would have to be stacked on the third slot from the
left. If the player wanted to place a mushroom good
next, he would have to place it in the fourth slot from
the left.

There are two numbers at the top of each goods slot.
The left number indicates how many village points
each good in that pile is worth at the end of the game.
In the example below, if a player had two fruit goods
at the end of the game, each of those goods would be
worth 2 village points (for a total of 4 village points).
The right number above each slot is an indication of
the player’s current income. In the example below,
the player would collect 6 coins (listed above fruit),
at the end of each round (he would not also collect
the coins listed above any of the other goods-- only the
good furthest to the right).
Once a good has been placed in the advancement
track, it cannot be removed.

Liquid Woman: The liquid woman is unsettling.
When she joins your village, you lose one
reputation.
Glogo: The glogo is adept at building. If you use
him to build, pay one fewer coin than normal.
Cave Cat: The cave cat doesn’t like to obey orders.
Each time you use the cat you must roll a die. If
you roll a 3-6, the cat will perform the task you
assign it. If you roll a 1-2, the cat moves to the
exhausted area without performing any task. If
the cave cat does not perform the task, you do
not lose your action this turn. You may exhaust
another villager to perform an action.
Metal Man: The metal man uses his own bed each
day. He does not use beds on your buildings. He
cannot use cider or potions.

Reputation

The reputation track is a measure of how well-known
and esteemed a player’s village is. All players start
on the torch symbol on the track. If a player gains
reputation, he moves his cube down the track, toward
the bottom of the cave. If a player loses reputation, he
moves his cube up the track, toward the surface.
Players with higher reputation will earn more village
points at the end of the game.
Reputation is gained or lost as a result of choices
made during the Explore action.

Special Villagers

There are six special villagers in the base game. They
are the Liquid Woman, Glogo, Cave Cat (two of these),
and Metal Man (two of these) villagers. At the start
of the game, place these villagers face up near the
play area. They can only be obtained through specific
encounters in the encounter book. Each of these
villagers has special rules.

12

Game End
After seven rounds have passed, the game ends and
players count up village points. Players gain village
points for the following:

Advancement Track

Players count up village points for each good on the
advancement track. The amount each good is worth
is indicated just above the slot on the board. In the
example below, if a player had four fruit on the third
slot, he would gain 2 village points each for a total of
8 village points. If he had one rope and one fish, he
would gain 1 village point each.

Buildings

Each building is worth 1 village point. This includes
houses, key houses, star houses, and outposts. This
does not include empty cave cards a player owns.
This does include a player’s starting house.

Reputation

At the end of the game, the player with the most
reputation gains 5 extra village points. The player
with the second-most reputation gains 3 extra village
points. The player with the third-most reputation
gains 2 extra village points. If playing with two
players, only the player with the most reputation
gets the bonus: he gains 3 points (this is why there is
a person symbol with the number “2” in this village
point symbol). If players are tied for reputation, add
the two appropriate reputation rewards together
and divide by 2 (rounding up), giving each player an
equal number of points. Example: Tom and Sarah are
tied for most reputation. They add 5+3 village points
(because they are “1st” and “2nd” place), divide by 2,
and each player gets 4 village points.
Players also gain or lose village points indicated by a
smaller village point symbol next to their position on
the track. For example, if a player ended the game with
his cube on the highest space on the track, near the
surface, he would lose 2 village points.

Card Bonuses

Some buildings give bonus village points. In many
cases, the points are simply listed at the bottom of the
card. The card below would give the player 2 bonus
village points.

Some cards give bonus village points for owning
specific items. The card below on the left gives a
player 4 bonus village points, plus 2 bonus village
points for each potion and each ore he owns (to give
points, goods must be in the advancement track or
in the player’s supply--not on a building). The card
below on the right gives a player 3 bonus village
points, plus 2 points for each house/key house/star
house he owns. Remember: each house or outpost also
gives 1 additional village point because it is a building.

Compare Total

Players compare their total village points. The player
with the most village points is the winner! If tied, the

player with the most coins wins the tie. If still tied, the player
with the most villagers wins the tie. If still tied, the player
with the most buildings wins the tie.

13

Fruit

Rope

Clay Pot

Paper

Ore

Amethyst

Note: The order of goods from top to bottom

indicates how often they appear in the game,
with mushrooms being the most common and
easiest to obtain.

14

UNCOMMON GOODS

Fish

RARE GOODS

Mushroom

COMMON GOODS

Symbols
Village Points: The player with the

most village points at the end of the
game is the winner. A card with this
symbol would give 3 extra village points.

Coins: Coins are used to purchase build-

ings and train new villagers. They can also
be used in some encounters

Beds: For each bed symbol on a card a

player owns, he may move one villager
from “injured” to “exhausted” OR “exhausted” to “ready” on his player board.

Train to Ready: If a player owns

a card with this symbol, he may place
newly-trained villagers in the “ready”
area instead of the “exhausted” area.

Gain a Coin When Building:

If a player owns a card with this
symbol, he gains 1 coin after he
purchases a building card. He must
pay the full amount for the building
before collecting the bonus coin. A
player does not collect a coin when
he builds this card (only other cards).

Reroll: These symbols allow a player
to reroll when performing an explore
action. He must always keep the rerolled number. (In this case, because
there are 2 symbols, the player could
reroll twice per encounter).

Gain a Coin when Exploring:

If a player owns a card with this symbol, he gains 1 coin after completing
a successful encounter.

Cider/Potions as Coins: A card
with one of these symbols allows the
player to spend ciders or potions as
if they were coins.

Explore: These symbols rep-

resent how adept a villager is at
exploring. For the left symbol, a
roll of 1 or higher would give one
lantern. For the right symbol, a
roll of 4 or higher would give two
lanterns.

Hammer: A villager with this symbol

can complete the Build action.

Quill: A villager with this symbol can
complete the Train action.

Hammer/Quill Plus: A villager

with one of these symbols can complete a Build/Train action, and he
pays one fewer coin when doing so.

Cave Cat: This symbol belongs to the

cave cat. It means that each time a player assigns the cave cat to do an action,
he must roll a die. On a roll of 1-2, the
cat does not complete the action and is
placed directly in the “exhausted” area.

Bad Reputation: A villager with this
symbol causes the player to lose one
reputation when the villager is gained.

Metal Man: These symbols

belong to the Metal Man villager.
They represent that this villager
has his own bed, and that neither
cider nor potions can be used on
him.

Gain Reputation: When

a player buys a card with this
symbol, he immediately gains 1
reputation (only once).

Village Points for
Villagers: This symbol

gives 2 village points per
villager the player owns.

Goods (on card): When a player buys a card with this symbol,
he immediately places 2 goods of
the specified type on it. The goods
can be harvested from the card.
The card never makes additional
goods.
Replenishing Goods (on
card): When a player buys a

card with this symbol, he immediately places 1 good of the
specified type on it. The good
can be harvested from the
card. At the end of the round,
if the card does not have a
good on it, the player places 1
of the specified good on it.

Income for (Goods): This

card grants one income for each
amethyst and one income for
each ore the player has in his
advancement track.

Potion (on card): When a player

purchases a card with this symbol, he
immediately gains 1 potion.

Potion Income (on card): At the
end of each round, the player collects
one potion.

Income (on card): If a player owns
a card with this symbol, he collects 1
extra coin at the end of each round.
Village Points for Things:
If a player owns a card with
this symbol, he gains bonus
village points for owning specified goods/etc. In this case,
the player would gain 2 village
points per potion and 2 village
points per ore he owned at the
end of the game.

Village Points for Empty
Caves: This symbol gives 1 vil-

lage point per empty cave card
(with no outpost) that the player
owns.
15

Index

Round

1. Player Actions

6-9
Actions
12, 13
Advancement Track
10, 14
Bed
8
Build
9
Buy from a Player
10
Cider
10-11
End of the Round
6-8
Explore
9-10
Free Actions
13
Game End
9
Harvest
7, 10-11
Income
9
Labor
10
Pass
10, 15
Potion
10
Refresh a Building Row
12, 13
Reputation
9
Sell
12,
15
Special Villager
9
Train
14-15
Symbols
6, 9, 10, 15
Villager

Explore (Read an encounter, gain a cave card.)
Harvest (Pick up good[s] from your cards.)
Build (Buy any available house or outpost.)
Train (Gain a new villager.)
Labor (Gain one coin per villager sent.)
Free Actions
Buy From a Player
Put Something For Sale
Refresh a Building Row (Pay a coin.)

Pass

2. End the Round

Exhausted to Ready
(spend)
Injured to Exhausted
(spend)
Exhausted to Ready
OR
Injured to Exhausted

Round Marker
New Cider
New Villagers
Rest Villagers
Collect Income
Refresh Goods on Buildings
Pass 1st-Player Card to the Left

Credits

Game Design: Ryan Laukat
Illustration: Ryan Laukat
Development and Editing: Malorie Laukat
Writing: Ryan Laukat, Alf Seegert, Malorie Laukat
Playtesters: Malorie Laukat, Brandon Laukat, Rachel Green, Matt Green, Alf Seegert, Benson J. Whitney, Ryan Butcher AKA Think-

bomb, Michael Mindes AKA Awesomeness, Jeremy Tritchler, Shawn Tritchler, Michael Brown, Alison Brown, Mike Risley, Barbara Allen,
Matt Allen. Thank you to everyone who contributed to the development of this game.

Special thanks to all the Kickstarter backers that made this game possible!

16

Copyright 2015 Red Raven Games

