# Axis & Allies 1942 -- Rulebook Text
# Source: https://axisallies.com/rules/axis-allies-rules-1942-2nd-edition.pdf
# Extracted: 2026-03-05

AXIS & ALLIES: 1942 SECOND EDITION                      RENEGADE GAME STUDIOS
Game Design: Larry Harris                               President & Publisher: Scott Gaeta
Game Development: Larry Harris, Kevin Chapman,          Vice President Sales & Marketing: Sara Erickson
and Brian Hart                                          Controller: Robyn Gaeta
Rulebook Development: Larry Harris and Kevin Chapman    Director of Operations: Leisha Cummins
Playtesting: Harris Game Design Group                   Associate Project Manager: Katie Gjesdahl
Editing: Bill McQuillan and Kevin Chapman               Director, Strategic Partnerships: Erika Conway
Art Direction: Blake Beasley and Ryan Sansaver          Sales Manager: Kaitlin Ellis
Cover Illustration: Jim Butcher                         E-Commerce: Nick Medinger
Graphic Design: Leon Cortez                             Sales & Marketing Program Manager: Matt Holland
Cartography: Todd Gamble                                Community Manager: Jordan Gaeta
Photography: Allison Shinkle and Katie Wright           Senior Producer of Board & Card Games: Dan Bojanowski
Brand Management: Brian Hart                            Associate Producer of Board & Card Games: Jimmy Le
Project Management: Neil Shinkle                        Associate Producer of RPGs: Kevin Schluter
Production Management: Godot Gutierre                   Lead Developer, World of Darkness: Juhana Pettersson
Thanks to all of our project team members and the many  Product Developer, RPGs: Jason Keeley
others too numerous to mention who have contributed to  Senior Game Designer: Matt Hyra
this product.                                           Game Designers: Dan Blanchett and Christopher Chung
                                                        Director of Visual Design: Anita Osburn
HASBRO CREDITS                                          Creative Director, Games: Jeanne Torres
Team Hasbro: Elizabeth Artale, Paul Strickland,         Creative Director, RPGs: Sarah Robinson
Tayla Reo, and Brian Casentin                           Creative Production: Todd Crapper, Noelle Lopez,
                                                        & Gordon Tucker
                                                        Video Production Associate: Katie Schmitt
                                                        Customer Service Manager: Jenni Janikowski
                                                        Customer Service: Bethany Bauthues
                                                        Finance Clerk: Madeline Minervini

             For additional information or support, please visit us online: www.renegadegames.com

             /PlayRGS @PlayRenegade Renegade_Game_Studios /PlayRenegade

  2023 Wizards of the Coast LLC. Wizards of the Coast and its logo are trademarks of Wizards of the Coast LLC. Avalon Hill,
Axis & Allies, and their respective logos are trademarks of Hasbro, Inc. and are used with permission. All Rights Reserved.

                               2023 Renegade Game Studios. All Rights Reserved.
   DESIGNER'S NOTES

   Axis & Allies 1942 2nd Edition is         as the starting date, we begin the         that so shaped our history? Those men
    a very special game. The map not          game with the Axis at the peak of their    could have spoken almost directly to
    only features a larger size, but it also  power.                                     me by way of my father, if only they
    contains more territories and sea zones                                              had spent some time together. What a
    than its predecessor. The new plastic     When the United States entered the         gift that would have been.
    units, which you are probably looking     war on December 7, 1941, the world
    at right now, are simply amazing. I       truly found itself in its Second World     I did, however, receive many such
    hope you'll agree. The addition of        War. When I was growing up, that           gifts from my Dad. There's not
    antiaircraft artillery is a considerable  war was considered a recent event.         much I don't know about his World
    departure from the gray AA gun of         The years have slipped by, and now         War II experiences. Nonetheless, I
    the past. It joins the expanding list of  that monumental world event, like          could have been told things, almost
    units that make up the ever-growing       many of its participants, has faded        directly, from a man who may have
    family of Axis & Allies games.            under the dust of time. This should        actually witnessed Pickett's charge
                                              generate a sense of urgency in all of us.  at Gettysburg. To keep these stories
   When it comes to the Axis & Allies         Think about it. We can still converse      alive you must seek out these now-old
   "family," call up in your mind a           with those who actually participated       folks before they fade away. Then you
    family portrait. Standing over there      in it. The problem is that with each       will be able to answer "yes" when
    on the left is Axis & Allies 1941. It     passing day, the possibility of doing so   someday, while playing a game of
    is designed to be a quicker and less      decreases. The dust becomes deeper         Axis & Allies, your grandchild asks in
    complicated experience. It also           and more difficult to blow off. In the     awe whether you ever talked to a real
    comes with a completely new line of       not-too-distant future, we will have       World War II soldier.
    iconic units including, but not limited   lost our opportunity to speak with
    to, Tiger tanks. On the other side,       these amazing people.                      --Larry Harris
    standing on the right, are the twins
   Axis & Allies Europe 1940 and Axis         I have a historical perspective that
   & Allies Pacific 1940. These two must      I would like to share with you. My
    be seen and played to be believed.        father, who passed away this year,
   They're not for everybody, however.        was a veteran of World War II, as
   There's a longer playing time and a        well as the inspiration behind Axis &
    few more rules to contend with, but       Allies. He used to tell me about his
   what the heck . . . you deserve it!        experience as a child seeing Civil War
    Standing front and center in the family   veterans marching or being wheeled
    portrait is this new Axis & Allies 1942   down Main Street on Veteran's Day.
    game. As Goldilocks would put it, this    I asked him if he had ever spoken
    game is "not too hot and not too cold;    with any them. "No, can't say that I
    it's just right" (depending on your       did. Just never got around to it." That
    taste, of course).                        bothered me as I grew older. What
                                              if he had talked to those soldiers
    In this game, as in all the current Axis  who had loaded their rifles with lead
   & Allies games, you will find yourself     musket balls and fired off volleys as
    controlling the military and economic     they stood their ground to receive the
    destiny of one or more of the great       enemy's reply--the very men who
    powers of World War II. With 1942         had fought in the great battles of a war

2
TABLE OF CONTENTS

Game Piece Directory. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
How the War Is Won. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
The Combatants. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Order of Play. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10

   Phase 1: Purchase Units. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
   Phase 2: Combat Move . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

 Special Combat Movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

   Phase 3: Conduct Combat. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14

 Strategic Bombing Raids. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Amphibious Assaults. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
General Combat. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Multinational Forces. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

   Phase 4: Noncombat Move. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
   Phase 5: Mobilize New Units. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
   Phase 6: Collect Income. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22

Winning the Game. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Unit Profiles. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

                                                                                                     3
   AXIS & ALLIES GAME PIECE DIRECTORY

                       Control  Infantry  Artillery         Tank        Antiaircraft    Fighter    Bomber
                       Marker                                             Artillery

   US

                                          105mm Howitzer    Sherman     90mm M1         P-38        B-17
                                                                                                   Halifax
   UK

                                             Ordnance       Matilda II  3.7in. QFAA     Spitfire
                                          QF 25 Pounder

   Japan Germany USSR                     Same as US        T-34        85mm M1939      Yak 3      Petlyakov PE-8

                                          10.5cm LeFH 18    Panther     8.8 cm Flak 36  BF-109     JU-88

                                          Type 92 Howitzer  Type 95     75mm Type 88    A6M2 Zero  G4M2E Betty

4
                                                              12+ 2-5 4-6h

Aircraft       Battleship  Cruiser   Destroyer Submarine Transport
Carrier

                                                                             US

Wasp           Iowa        Portland  Johnston        Ray       Liberty Ship

                                                                             UK

Illustrious    Royal Oak   Kent      S Class         T Class   Same as US

Same as UK     Gangut      Kirov     Gnevnyi         S Class   Same as US    Japan Germany USSR

Graf Zeppelin  Bismarck    Hipper    Zerstrer 1934  Type VII  Hilfskreuzer

Shinano        Yamato      Takao     Fubuki          I-class   Hakusan-Maru

                                                                                                 5
   HOW THE WAR IS WON

   Axis & Allies 1942 can be played by up to five players. Each player controls one or more world powers. On your turn, you
   build, deploy, maneuver, and command army divisions, air wings, and naval fleets to loosen your foes' hold on their territories.
   On your opponents' turns, they will bring their forces against you. The more territories you hold, the more weapons you can
   build--and the more powerful those weapons can be.

   On the map are thirteen victory cities crucial to the war effort. As the game begins, the Axis controls six of these cities and
   the Allies control seven of them. The Allies begin the game controlling Washington, London, Leningrad, Moscow, Calcutta,
   Honolulu, and San Francisco. The Axis powers begin the game controlling Berlin, Paris, Rome, Shanghai, Manila, and Tokyo.
   The standard victory condition is if your side controls at least three more total victory cities than it started with (9 for the Axis
   or 10 for the Allies) at the end of a complete round of play (after the completion of the U.S. turn), you win the war.

   If you want to use the total victory condition, then after the
   completion of the U.S. turn, your side must control all thirteen
   (13) victory cities. Players must agree at the beginning of
   the game which victory condition will constitute a win. If
   no specific agreement is made, then the standard victory
   condition will apply.

   STANDARD VICTORY: 9 for the Axis or 10 for the Allies
   TOTAL VICTORY: 13

   THE COMBATANTS

   One or more players take the side of the Axis (Germany and Japan), and one or more play the Allies (Soviet Union, United
   Kingdom, and United States). In a five-player game, each player controls one world power. If fewer people play, some will
   control more than one power. If a player controls more than one power, those powers must all be on the same side.

   If you control more than one power, keep track of those powers' income and units separately. You can conduct operations for
   only one power at a time.

   SETUP

   Once you have decided who will play which power(s), prepare the game for play. It contains the following components.

   Setup Cards

   Take the setup card for your power. It shows the name of the power, its units' color, and its emblem. It also lists the starting
   numbers and locations of your units on the game board.

6  Note: The lines with the words "sea zone" and a number indicate the numbered sea zone space where those sea units are placed.
Combat Forces                                        Power           Starting Income        Color
                                                     Soviet Union                           Maroon
Take the plastic pieces that represent your power's                          24
combat units. Each power is color-coded as shown     Germany                 41             Gray
in the chart at right, which also shows the power's                          31
starting income level and treasury in Industrial     United Kingdom          30             Tan
Production Credits (see below). Place all of your    Japan                   42             Orange
power's starting units on the game board as listed
on your power's setup card.                          United States                          Green

Plastic Chips

Use the chips to save space in overcrowded territories and sea zones. Gray chips represent one combat unit each, green chips
represent three units each, and red chips represent five units each. For example, if you wanted to place nine infantry on a space,
you would stack up one red chip, one green chip, and one infantry unit on top. The number of stacks is not limited by the
number of plastic pieces available. (If you do not have enough pieces to top off all your stacks, simply use any identifying item,
such as a piece of paper with the unit type written on it.)

These same plastic chips are also used to mark the amount of damage inflicted on industrial complexes that occurs during a
strategic bombing raid. One chip is placed under the industrial complex for each point of damage it receives. (See "Strategic
Bombing Raids", page 14.)

National Control Markers

National control markers indicate status in the game. They mark conquered territories and
indicate national production levels. Take all of the national control markers that feature
the emblem of your power.

National Production Chart

The national production chart on the game board tracks each power's national production level (income) during the game.
The level is based on the combined Industrial Production Credit (IPC) values of each territory a power controls. Place one of
your control markers on the number on the chart that matches your power's starting income (see above). This is the power's
starting national production level. Each player should keep track of his or her power's production level separately.

Industrial Production Credits

These units are the money of the game, representing capacity for military production. The amounts shown in the chart above
represent each power's beginning national production level. Each power also begins the game with that many IPCs in its
treasury to spend on its first turn. During the game, each power will spend IPCs, on new units for example, and collect more
IPCs as income from territories that it controls. Have one player act as a banker and track each power's IPC treasury on a
piece of paper, or use another means agreed upon by your group.

Battle Strip, Casualty Strip, and Dice

The battle strip is a card with columns that list attacking and defending units and their combat strengths. When combat occurs,
the players involved place their units on both sides of the battle strip. Combat is resolved by rolling dice. Casualties are
designated by being moved behind the casualty strip.

                                                                                                     7
   Game Board

   The game board is a map of the world, circa 1942. It is divided into spaces, either territories (on land) or sea zones, separated
   by border lines.

   Spaces On The Game Board

   The border colors of the territories on the game board show which power controls them at the start of the game. Each power
   has its own color and emblem. The "original controller" of a territory is the power whose emblem is printed on that territory.
   All other spaces are neutral and are not aligned with any power.

   Most territories have an income value ranging from 1 to 12. This is the number of IPCs they produce each turn for their
   controller. A few territories, such as Gibraltar, have no income value.

   Units can move between adjacent spaces (those that share a common border). The game board wraps around horizontally.
   Territories and sea zones on the right edge of the board are adjacent to territories and sea zones on the left edge. The following
   spaces are adjacent: Western Canada and Eastern Canada; Western United States and Central United States; Mexico and East
   Mexico; sea zones 55 and 19; sea zones 42 and 20; and sea zones 41 and 21. The top and bottom edges of the board do not
   wrap around.

   All territories exist in one of three conditions:

   Friendly: Controlled by you or a friendly power (one on your side).

   Hostile: Controlled by an enemy power (one on the opposing side).

8  Neutral: Not controlled by any power. Control of neutral territories never changes.

   Sea zones are either friendly or hostile. Friendly sea zones contain no enemy surface warships. Hostile sea zones contain

   enemy surface warships (this does not include enemy submarines and transports).
Neutral Territories

Neutral territories (such as Turkey, Mongolia, or Sahara) do not have any power's emblem on them. They represent areas that
are impassable for political or geographical reasons. You cannot attack neutral territories, move through them, or move over
them with air units. Neutral and impassable territories do not have income values.

Optional Rule: In order to maintain its neutrality, Turkey closed the narrow straits linking the Black Sea and the
Mediterranean, permitting no naval passage by any belligerent nation on either side. No sea units may move into or out of sea
zone 16, however, air units may move through this sea zone freely.

Canals                                                                      Since an ally controls
                                                                        Central America, this British
There are two canals--artificial waterways that connect two larger
bodies of water--on the game board. The Panama Canal connects the            destroyer can move
Pacific Ocean (sea zone 19) to the Atlantic Ocean (sea zone 18), while        through the canal.
the Suez Canal connects the Mediterranean Sea (sea zone 17) to the
Indian Ocean (sea zone 34). A canal is not considered a space, so it
does not block land movement: Land units can move freely between
Trans-Jordan and Egypt. Central America is one territory:
No land movement points are required to cross the canal within
Central America.

If you want to move sea units through a canal, your side (but not
necessarily your power) must control it at the start of your turn (that
is, you cannot use it the turn you capture it). The side that controls Central America controls the Panama Canal. The side that
controls both Egypt and Trans-Jordan controls the Suez Canal. If one side controls Egypt and the other controls Trans-Jordan,
the Suez Canal is closed to sea units.

The movement of air units is completely unaffected by canals, whether they are moving over land or water. They can pass
between sea zones connected by the canal regardless of which side controls it.

Islands

An island or island group is a single territory surrounded entirely
by one or more sea zones. A sea zone can contain at most one
group of islands, which is considered one territory. It is not
possible to split up land-based units so that they are on different
islands in the same group. Islands that have no name label, such
as the ones in sea zone 15, are not game spaces and cannot have
units moved onto them.

                                                                                                                                 9
    ORDER OF PLAY                             Phase 1: Purchase Units

    Axis & Allies 1942 is played in rounds.   In this phase, you may spend IPCs for additional units to be used in future turns.
    A round consists of each power taking     All the units listed on the mobilization zone chart on the game board are
    a turn, and then a check to see if one    available for purchase. A unit's price in IPCs is listed in the cost column next to
    side or the other has won the game.       the unit's name.

    Order of Play                             Purchase Units Sequence
         1. Soviet Union                           1. Order units
         2. Germany                                2. Pay for units & industrial complex repairs
         3. United Kingdom                         3. Place units in mobilization zone
         4. Japan
         5. United States                     Step 1: Order Units
         6. Check for victory                 You may purchase as many units of any type as you can afford and will have the
                                              ability to mobilize (see "Phase 5: Mobilize New Units", page 21) after making
    Your power's turn consists of six         repairs to any damaged industrial complexes (see below). Select all the units you
    phases, which take place in a fixed       wish to purchase. You don't have to spend all of your IPCs. The number of pieces
    sequence. You must collect income if      in play is not limited by the number of plastic and cardboard pieces available.
    you can, but all other parts of the turn  (If you don't have any more of a unit type you wish to purchase, simply use any
    sequence are voluntary. When you          identifying item, such as a piece of paper with the unit type written on it.)
    finish the collect income phase, your
    turn is over. Play then passes to the     Step 2. Pay for Units & Industrial Complex Repairs
    next power. When every power has          Pay IPCs to the bank equal to the total cost of the units (by having the banker
    completed a turn, if no side has won,     adjust the number of IPCs in your power's treasury).
    begin a new round of play.
                                              You can also pay to remove damage from industrial complexes that have been
    Turn Sequence                             damaged (see "Strategic Bombing Raids", page 14). Each point of damage costs
         1. Purchase Units                    1 IPC to remove. Repairs take effect immediately.
         2. Combat Move
         3. Conduct Combat                    Step 3: Place Units in the Mobilization Zone
         4. Noncombat Move                    Place the purchased units in the mobilization zone on the game board. You cannot
         5. Mobilize New Units                use these units right away, but you will deploy them later in the turn.
         6. Collect Income

                                              MOBILIZATION ZONE

                                              UNIT STATS: Cost Move Attack Defense

                                              Industrial Complex 15     -  -  -

                                              Land Units

                                              Infantry    3             1  1  2

                                              Artillery   4             1  2  2

                                              Tank        6             2  3  3

                                              Antiaircraft Artillery 5  1  -  1

                                              Air Units   10 4             3  4
                                              Fighter
                                              Bomber      12 6             4  1

                                              Sea Units

                                              Submarine   6             2  2  1

                                              Transport   7             2  -  -

                                              Destroyer   8             2  2  2

                                              Cruiser     12 2             3  3

                                              Aircraft Carrier 14 2        1  2

                                              Battleship  20 2             4  4

10
ORDER OF PLAY (continued)

Phase 2: Combat Move

Movement in this game is separated into combat movement and noncombat movement phases. During the Combat Move
phase, all movement must end in a hostile space, with a few exceptions (see below). Movement into a hostile territory counts
as a combat movement whether that space is occupied or not. Additional movement that does not end in a hostile space occurs
during the Noncombat Move phase (phase 4).

Move as many of your units into as many hostile territories and sea zones as you wish. You can move into a single hostile
space from different spaces, as long as each moving unit can reach that space with a legal move.

You can move units through friendly spaces en route to hostile spaces during this                                                 Air units can
phase. However, units cannot end their movement in friendly spaces during the                                                     move through
Combat Move phase except in four instances:                                                                                       a hostile space

     Tanks that have blitzed through an unoccupied hostile space                                                                  as if it was
           (see "Special Combat Movement: Tanks and Blitzing", page 13),                                                             friendly.

      Sea units that will be participating in an amphibious assault from an
           uncontested sea zone,

     Units moving from an enemy-occupied sea zone to escape combat as
           their combat move (see "Sea Units Starting in Enemy-Occupied Sea
           Zones", page 12),

      Units moving into a sea zone containing only enemy submarines
           and/or transports in order to attack those units. (Remember that such a
           sea zone is not considered hostile.)

If you move all of your units out of a territory you control, you still retain control
of that territory until an enemy moves into and captures it (the territory remains in
control of the power that controlled it at the start of the turn).

Units cannot   Units cannot move into or through                                           Land units
 move into     neutral territories.                                                     must end their
   neutral
 territories.  Units from the same side can freely                                        movement
               share territories, sea zones, and space                                     when they
               on aircraft carriers and transports with                                   encounter a
               one another. These shared events must                                    hostile territory.
               be agreed upon by both powers.                                            Blitzing tanks
                                                                                        are an exception
                                                                                        (see page 13).

All combat movement is considered to take place at the same time: Thus, you
cannot move a unit, then conduct combat, then move that unit again during this
phase. The only exception to this is land units making an amphibious assault
that is preceded by a sea battle (see "Amphibious Assaults", page 12), as they
must offload after the sea battle is successfully completed. You cannot move
additional units into an embattled space once an attack has begun.

A land or sea unit can move a number of spaces up to its move value. Most units must stop when they enter a hostile space.
Thus, a unit with a move value of 2 could move into a friendly space and then a hostile space, or just into a hostile space.

An enemy submarine and/or transport does not             Sea units must end their movement when they encounter a hostile
block any of your units' movement, nor does it        sea zone. The destroyer must stop in zone 31, however, the submarine
prevent loading or offloading in that sea zone (with
                                                          can pass through safely since the enemy unit is not a destroyer.

one exception--see "Special Combat Movement:

Transports", page 13). As the moving player, you

have the option of attacking an enemy submarine

and/or transport that shares a sea zone with you.

However, if you choose to make such an attack with                                                                                                 11

a unit, that unit must end its movement in that sea

zone, and it must attack all such units present. In

other words, you must either attack all enemy submarines and transports in the sea zone, or you must ignore all of them. You may

not attack some enemy units and ignore others in the same sea zone. It is possible that some of your units may stop to attack while

others continue moving through the sea zone.
    ORDER OF PLAY

    Sea Units Starting in Enemy-Occupied Sea Zones

    At the beginning of the Combat Move phase, you may already have sea units (and/or fighters on carriers) in spaces containing
    enemy units that were there at the start of your turn. For example, an enemy may have built new units in a sea zone where you
    have sea units. When your turn comes around again, you are sharing that sea zone with enemy forces.

    If your units are sharing a sea zone with only enemy submarines and/or transports (a friendly sea zone) and you want to ignore
    them, the normal rules for combat movement apply. However, if they are sharing a sea zone with enemy surface warships (a hostile
    sea zone), or you are attacking enemy submarines and/or transports there, each of your units must do one of the following:

          Remain in the sea zone and conduct combat,
          Leave the sea zone, load units if desired, and conduct combat elsewhere,
         Leave the sea zone, either to load units or to establish a retreat route, and return to the same sea zone to conduct combat, or
          Leave the sea zone and conduct no combat.

    Remember, you can only load units in friendly sea zones, so if this sea zone is hostile, you must load them elsewhere.

    Once these sea units have moved and/or participated in combat, they cannot move or participate in the Noncombat Move
    phase of the turn.

    Air Units

    An air unit that moves in the Combat Move phase must generally reserve part of its move value for the Noncombat Move
    phase, at which point it must return to a safe landing spot using its remaining movement.

    An air unit's movement in any complete turn is limited to its total move value. Thus, a bomber with a move value of 6 cannot
    move six spaces to get to a hostile space. It must save enough movement points to get to a friendly territory where it can land.
    A fighter can move its full four spaces to attack in a sea zone instead of saving movement, but only if a carrier could be there
    for it to land on by the conclusion of the Mobilize New Units phase.

    Air units attacking territories that have antiaircraft artillery will be fired upon (see page 24). This does not include territories
    containing antiaircraft artillery that are only being flown over.

    Amphibious Assaults

    If you want to make any amphibious assaults, announce your intent to do so during the Combat Move phase. An amphibious
    assault takes place when you attack a coastal territory or island group from a sea zone by offloading land units from transports
    into that target territory (or make a joint attack with both seaborne units that are offloading and other units from one or more
    neighboring territories). The sea zone may be either friendly or hostile, but if it's hostile, it must be made friendly through sea
    combat before the amphibious assault may commence.

    Moving transports and their cargo into
    a sea zone from which you plan to
    make an amphibious assault counts as
    a combat move, even if there are no
    defending surface warships there. This
    is also true of any battleships and/or
    cruisers that will support the assault.

    During the Conduct Combat phase, you     Amphibious assault movement occurs during the Combat Move phase. After your
    can only launch amphibious assaults      transport loads units, in this example, the U.S. battleship must destroy the enemy

    that you announced during this phase.    destroyer in sea combat in order to clear the hostile sea zone so that the transport

                                             can offload into France. If there had been only defending submarines and/or
                                             transports, the attacking U.S. player could have ignored those units, or could have
12                                           conducted sea combat.
    If an amphibious assault involves a sea

    combat, any air units participating in

    the assault must move to either the sea

    zone or the land territory. They will then participate only in the part of the assault to which they have moved.
ORDER OF PLAY (continued)

Special Combat Movement

A number of units can make special moves during this phase. These are described in detail below.

Aircraft Carriers
Any fighters belonging to an aircraft carrier launch before the carrier moves and move independently of the carrier.
These fighters can make a combat move from the carrier's sea zone, or they can remain in the sea zone until the Noncombat
Move phase.

Guest fighters belonging to a friendly power on board another power's carrier must remain on board as cargo if the carrier
moves. They cannot take part in combat and are destroyed if the carrier is destroyed.

Whether it moves during the Combat Move or Noncombat Move phase, an aircraft carrier allows friendly fighters to land on it
in the sea zone where it finishes its move.

Submarines
Submarines are capable of moving undetected due to their ability to submerge. For this reason, they have special movement rules.
If there are no enemy destroyers present, a submarine can move through a sea zone containing enemy warships without stopping.
However, if a submarine enters a sea zone containing an enemy destroyer during the Combat Move phase, its movement ends
immediately and combat will result.

Tanks and Blitzing
A tank can "blitz" by moving through an unoccupied hostile territory as the first part of a move that can end in a friendly
or hostile territory. The complete move must occur during the Combat Move phase. The tank establishes control of the first
territory before it moves to the next. Place your control marker on the first territory and adjust the national production levels as
you blitz. A tank that encounters enemy units, including antiaircraft artillery units or an industrial complex, in the first territory
it enters must stop there and may not blitz.

     You can blitz a tank through a territory if that            You must stop a tank's movement when it
territory is hostile but unoccupied. Remember to place your  encounters any enemy units, including antiaircraft artillery
                                                             units or an industrial complex, so this tank may not blitz.
          control marker in the blitzed territory.

Transports

If a transport encounters hostile surface warships (not enemy submarines and/or transports) AFTER it begins to move
(not counting the sea zone it started in), its movement for that turn ends, and it must stop there and conduct sea combat.

A transport can load units while in any friendly sea zone along its route, including the sea zone it started in. If a transport loads
land units during the Combat Move phase, it must offload those units to attack a hostile territory as part of an amphibious
assault during the Conduct Combat phase, or it must retreat during the sea combat step of the amphibious assault sequence
while attempting to do so. A transport that is part of an amphibious assault must end its movement in a friendly sea zone
(or one that could become friendly as result of sea combat) from which it can conduct the assault. However, a transport is not
allowed to offload land units for an amphibious assault in a sea zone containing one or more ignored enemy submarines unless
at least one warship belonging to the attacking power is also present in the sea zone at the end of the Combat Move phase.

Any land units aboard a transport are considered cargo until they offload. Cargo cannot take part in sea combat and is                  13

destroyed if the transport is destroyed.
    ORDER OF PLAY

    Phase 3: Conduct Combat

    In this phase, you conduct combat against opposing units
    using the following sequence:

    Combat Sequence
         1. Strategic bombing raids
         2. Amphibious assaults
         3. General combat

    A number of units have special rules that modify or overwrite the combat rules in this section. See "Unit Profiles", page 23 for
    combat rules associated with each type of unit.

    At no time can an Allied power attack another Allied power, or an Axis power attack another Axis power.

    1. Strategic Bombing Raids

    A strategic bombing raid is a direct attack on an industrial complex. During this step, you can bomb the enemy's industrial
    complexes with your bombers. When you damage these complexes, their capabilities are decreased or eliminated, and your
    enemy must spend IPCs to repair them in order to restore those capabilities. Repairs can be made by one of the complexes'
    controlling player during his or her Purchase Units phase (see "Phase 1: Purchase units", page 10).

    Each industrial complex has its own antiaircraft system. If there is an antiaircraft artillery unit in the targeted territory, don't roll
    for it. Those units are used to protect combat units. Each industrial complex rolls one die against each bomber directly attacking
    it (regardless of the number of bombers). For each "1" rolled, a bomber is immediately removed. Any surviving bombers each
    roll one die. To mark the damage done by the attacking bomber(s), place one gray plastic chip under the targeted industrial
    complex per damage point rolled. An industrial complex cannot receive more total damage than twice the IPC value of the
    territory on which it is located. Any excess damage is not applied.

    A bomber that performed a strategic bombing raid cannot participate in any other combat this turn and must return to a
    friendly territory during the Noncombat Move phase.

    Optional Rule: Both attacking and defending fighters can participate in strategic bombing raids as escorts or interceptors.
    Escort fighters (those accompanying the attacking bombers) can escort and protect the bombers, and they can originate from
    any territory or sea zone, range permitting.

    Any number of defending fighters based in a territory that is about to be strategically bombed can be committed to participate
    in the defense of the industrial complex as interceptors, whether or not there are attacking fighter escorts. The number of
    defending fighters that will intercept is decided by the owning player(s) after the attacker's Combat Move phase is completed
    and before the Conduct Combat phase begins. If the defender has elected to commit fighter interceptors, an air battle will be
    fought immediately before the targeted industrial complex fires its antiaircraft shots against the attacking bombers. The air
    battle, which ends after one round of combat, is resolved in the following way:

               1. Both the attacking bombers and fighter escorts, if any, fire with an attack value of 1.
                     For each "1" rolled, a defending interceptor is immediately removed as a casualty.

               2. The surviving defending interceptors then fire with a defense value of 2.
                     For each result of "2" or less, the attacker chooses a casualty and removes it.

    After the air battle is complete, or if there were no defending fighter interceptors, surviving fighter escorts are considered to be
    retreated. They don't participate in the actual bombing raid, are not subject to antiaircraft fire, and will remain in the territory
    until the Noncombat Move phase. Any surviving attacking bombers carry out the bombing raid as described above.

    Fighters participating as either an escort or an interceptor cannot participate in other battles during that turn, including a battle in

    the territory in which the bombing raid is occurring. Defending air units must return to their original territory. If that territory is

14  captured, the fighters can move one space to land in a friendly territory or on a friendly aircraft carrier. This movement occurs
    during the Noncombat Move phase, before the acting player makes any noncombat movements. If no such landing space is

    available, the fighters are lost.
ORDER OF PLAY (continued)

2. Amphibious Assaults

During this step you will resolve each amphibious assault you announced during the Combat Move phase. If you did not
announce an amphibious assault, go to General Combat (see page 16).

Amphibious Assault Sequence
     1. Sea combat
     2. Battleship & cruiser bombardment
     3. Land combat

Step 1. Sea Combat: If there are defending surface warships, sea combat occurs. If there are only defending submarines
and/or transports, the attacker can choose to ignore those units or conduct sea combat.

If sea combat occurs, all attacking and defending sea and air units present must participate in the battle. Conduct the sea
combat using the rules for General Combat (see page 16), then go to step 3 (land combat).
If no sea combat occurs, go to step 2 (bombardment).

Step 2. Battleship & Cruiser Bombardment: If there was NOT a combat in the sea zone from which you are offloading
units from transports, any accompanying battleships and cruisers in that sea zone can conduct a one-time bombardment of one
coastal territory or island group being attacked. The number of ships that can make bombardment attacks is limited to one ship
per land unit being offloaded from the transports into that coastal territory. If more than one territory or island group is being
assaulted from a sea zone and there are multiple battleships and/or cruisers, each ship may support only one assault. However,
the ships' bombardment may be split in any way that the attacker chooses, so long as the number of ships supporting each
assault doesn't exceed the number of seaborne land units in that assault. Choosing to destroy enemy transports or attacking
enemy submarines in step 1 (above) counts as a combat and prevents the battleship and cruiser bombardment from taking place.

Roll one die for each battleship and cruiser that can conduct bombardment. Battleships hit on a die roll of "4" or less, and
cruisers hit on a "3" or less. For each hit, the defender will move a defending unit behind the casualty strip. These casualties
will be able to defend during the land combat step before they are eliminated.

Step 3. Land Combat: Land combat can only take place if there was no sea battle or the sea zone has been cleared of all
defending enemy units except transports and submarines that submerged during the sea battle. If the attacker still has land
units committed to the coastal territory, move all attacking and defending units to the battle strip and conduct combat using the
general combat rules (page 16). Remember to put casualties from bombardment (if any) behind the casualty strip.

Attacking land units can come from transports (seaborne), and they can come from neighboring territories that are adjacent to
the attacked territory. Any land units offloading from a single transport can only be offloaded into a single hostile territory.

If no land units (carried as cargo) survived the sea combat, or if the attacking sea units withdrew from the sea combat, then
any other units that were designated to participate in the land attack (including air units) must still conduct one round of land
combat in a regular attack on the intended hostile territory before they can retreat.

If the attacker does not have any attacking land or air units left, the amphibious assault is over.

Keep the attacking overland units and seaborne land units separated on the battle strip. Attacking seaborne units cannot retreat.
Attacking overland land units and aircraft can retreat (between rounds of combat). All attacking overland land units must
retreat together as a group. They can only retreat to a territory from which at least one of them entered the contested territory
and must all retreat at the same time and to the same place. A retreat may happen at the conclusion of any round of combat.

Attacking air units, whether involved in the sea combat or the attack on the coastal territory, can retreat according to the
attacker retreat rules (Condition B--Attacker Retreats, pg. 18). If there is a retreat, air units and overland units (if any) must
retreat at the same time. Air units will land during the Noncombat Move phase.

                                                                                                    15
ORDER OF PLAY

               Air Units:

               Each attacking air unit can participate in the sea battle or the attack on the
               coastal territory; it cannot do both. The attacking player must declare which air
               units are involved in each part of the attack and cannot change their assignments
               later. At the end of the amphibious assault, all aircraft remain in place; they will
               land during the Noncombat Move phase.

               Air units defending in a territory can only fight in that territory. They cannot
               participate in the sea combat.

3. General Combat                                                                   General Combat Sequence

In this step, you resolve combat in each space that contains your units and             1. Place units along the battle strip
either contains enemy units or is enemy-controlled. Combat is resolved by               2. Submarine surprise strike or submerge
following the General Combat sequence. Combat in each space takes place at           (sea battles only)
the same time, but each affected territory or sea zone is resolved separately           3. Attacking units fire
and completely before resolving combat in the next contested space.                     4. Defending units fire
The attacker decides the order of spaces in which each combat occurs.                   5. Remove defender's casualties
No new units can enter as reinforcements once combat has begun. Attacking               6. Press attack or retreat
and defending units in each space are considered to fire at the same time,              7. Conclude combat
but for ease of play you roll dice in sequence: attacker first, then defender.

If you moved any units into unoccupied hostile territories or hostile territories
that contain only industrial complexes and/or antiaircraft artillery units, no
actual combat is necessary (though antiaircraft artillery units will still fire at
attacking air units). Simply skip to step 7 (Conclude Combat) for each of these
territories and remove any antiaircraft artillery units that may be in them.

Step 1. Place Units Along the Battle Strip

The battle strip has two sides, labeled "Attacker" and "Defender." Place all of the attacking and defending land, sea, and/or air
units from the battle onto their respective sides aligned with the number columns that contain those units' names and silhouettes.
Industrial complexes don't participate in general combat, as they may only be attacked and damaged by strategic bombing
raids. The number in a unit's column identifies that unit's attack or defense value. An attacking or defending unit must roll its
column's attack or defense value number or less in order to score a hit.

Antiaircraft artillery units and transports have no combat value and are not represented on the battle strip. Place these units
beside the battle strip, as they are still participants in the battle and may be taken as casualties.

In a sea battle, place any cargo (whether your own units or an ally's) beside the transport ship or on the aircraft carrier (guest fighters)
that is carrying it. Cargo does not roll for hits, nor can it be chosen as a casualty. It is lost with the ship carrying it if that ship is destroyed.

If you are attacking in a sea zone that already contained friendly units, your ally's units are not placed along the battle strip,
but remain out of play for this combat sequence.

Step 2. Submarine Surprise Strike or Submerge (Sea Battles Only)
This step is specific to attacking and defending submarines. Before all other units fire and resolve casualties (steps 35),
both attacking and defending submarines can choose to either make a Surprise Strike die roll or submerge. A player may choose
to submerge all, some, or none of his or her submarines. However, if your opponent has a destroyer in the battle, your attacking
or defending submarines cannot submerge or make a Surprise Strike and combat proceeds normally with your submarines firing
along with your other units in step 3 or 4.

Attacking or defending submarines that choose to submerge are immediately removed from the battle strip and returned to the
game board in the contested sea zone, removing them from the remaining battle sequences.

                   Note: Decisions on whether attacking and defending submarines will fire or submerge must be made before any dice are rolled
                   by either side. The attacking player decides first.

16

                   Each attacking submarine conducting a Surprise Strike rolls one die. Attacking submarines that roll a "2" or less score a hit.

                   After the attacking player has rolled for all attacking submarines, the defender chooses one sea unit (submarines cannot hit air

                   units) for each hit scored and moves it behind the casualty strip.
ORDER OF PLAY (continued)

Then each defending submarine conducting a Surprise Strike rolls one die. Defending submarines that roll a "1" score a hit.
After the defending player has rolled for all defending submarines, the attacker chooses one sea unit for each hit scored and
removes it from play.

Note: In both cases, attacking or defending, transports can only be chosen as a casualty if there are no other eligible units.
Submerged submarines cannot be chosen as a casualty since they have been removed from the battle.

Once all attacking and defending submarines that conducted a Surprise Strike have fired, the casualties they have generated
are removed from the game and this step is over for this round of combat. As long as there are attacking and/or defending
submarines and no opposing destroyers, this step is repeated during each round of combat. Any hits made during this step that
do not destroy units (such as battleships) remain in effect until the end of the combat.

Step 3. Attacking Units Fire (Land and Sea Battles)

Roll one die for each attacking unit with an attack value that did not fire or submerge in step 2. Roll for units with the same
attack value at the same time. For example, roll all units with an attack value of "3" at the same time. An attacking unit scores
a hit if you roll its attack value or less. After the attacking player has rolled for all attacking units, the defender chooses one
unit for each hit scored and moves it behind the casualty strip. All units behind the casualty strip will return fire in step 4.

As many hits as possible must be assigned. For instance, if a cruiser and two submarines attack a destroyer and a carrier with a
fighter and score three hits, the defender must assign the cruiser hit to the fighter and the submarine hits to the ships. The defender
may not assign the cruiser hit to a ship, because the submarines cannot hit the fighter and one submarine hit would be lost.

Step 4. Defending Units Fire (Land and Sea Battles)

Defending units roll one die for each unit with a defense value, including units that have been moved behind the casualty strip,
that did not fire or submerge in step 2. Roll for units with the same defense value at the same time. A defending unit scores a
hit if you roll its defense value or less.

                                                                                          Defenseless Transports

After the defending player has rolled for each defending unit with a                      In a sea battle, if the defender has
defense value, the attacker chooses one unit for each hit scored and removes              only transports remaining and the
it from play.                                                                             attacker still has units capable of
                                                                                          attacking, the defending transports
As many hits as possible must be assigned. For instance, if a cruiser and a               are all destroyed, along with their
submarine are defending against a destroyer and a fighter and the defender scores         cargo. You don't have to continue
two hits, the attacker must assign the submarine hit to the destroyer and the cruiser     rolling dice until all the transports
hit to the fighter. The attacker may not assign the cruiser hit to the destroyer, as the  receive hits. This will speed
submarine cannot hit the fighter and its hit would be lost.                               up combats.

                                                                                          This also occurs if the only combat
                                                                                          units remaining can't hit each other.

Specific to Sea Battles: In both steps 3 and 4, submarines that fired in step 2           For example, if the defender has
cannot fire again during the same combat round. If there is an enemy destroyer            only transports and submarines
in the battle, submarines fire in step 3 or 4 rather than step 2. Remember that in        remaining, and the attacker has only
sea battles hits from air units cannot be assigned to submarines unless there is a        air units remaining, the air units and
destroyer that is friendly to the air units in the battle, and hits can only be assigned  submarines can't hit each other, so
to transports if there are no other eligible units.                                       the transports are defenseless. At
                                                                                          this point, defenseless transports are
                                                                                          all destroyed, along with their cargo.

Step 5. Remove Defender's Casualties (Land and Sea Battles)                               Attacking transports are not usually
Remove the defender's units that are behind the casualty strip from play.                 considered defenseless, since
                                                                                          they generally have the option of

                                                                                          retreating. If they can't retreat, they

Note: After casualties are removed, it may be necessary to reevaluate certain units'      are treated the same as defending
capabilities that depend upon the presence or absence of other units.                     transports.

For example, infantry units may no longer be supported by artillery units,                Destroying defenseless transports

or submarines may no longer have their abilities canceled by enemy destroyers             in this way still counts as combat
that have been removed. These changes will take effect in the following                   for the purpose of offshore
combat round.                                                                             bombardment and similar rules.

                                                                                                                                         17
    ORDER OF PLAY

    Step 6. Press Attack or Retreat
    Combat rounds (steps 25) continue unless one of the following two conditions occurs (in this order):

    Condition A--Attacker and/or Defender Loses All Units
    Once all units that can either fire at a valid target or retreat on one or both sides have been destroyed, the combat ends.

    If a power has combat units remaining along the battle strip, that power wins the combat. Players who have units remaining
    along the battle strip return those units to the contested space on the game board.

    In a sea battle, if both sides have only transports remaining, the attacker's transports can remain in the contested sea zone or
    retreat per the rules in Condition B below, if possible.

    Condition B--Attacker Retreats

    The attacker (never the defender)
    can retreat during this step. Move all
    attacking land and sea units in that
    combat that are along the battle strip
    to a single adjacent friendly space
    from or through which at least one
    of the original attacking land or sea
    units moved. In the case of sea units,
    that space must have been friendly at
    the start of the turn (if no such space
    exists, retreat is not possible). All
    such units must retreat together to the
    same territory or sea zone, regardless
    of where they came from.

    Retreating air units remain in the

    contested space temporarily. They
    complete their retreat movement during

    the Noncombat Move phase using the
    same rules as an air unit involved in a

    successful battle.

    Step 7. Conclude Combat                  After one round of attacks, the attacking player decides to retreat,
                                                  but the destroyer must retreat to one of the sea zones the
                                                                      attacking forces came from.

    If you win a combat as the attacker in

    a territory and you have one or more
    surviving land units there, you take control of it. Otherwise, it remains in the defender's control. (If all units on both sides were

    destroyed, the territory remains in the defender's control.) Sea units can't take control of a territory; they must stay at sea.

    If you have captured the territory. place your control marker on the territory and adjust the national production levels. Your national
    production increases by the value of the captured territory; the loser's production decreases by the same amount.

    An industrial complex located in the captured territory now belongs to your side (see "Liberating a Territory", page 19). If you
    capture an industrial complex, you cannot mobilize new units there until your next turn. Any damage previously inflicted on
    an industrial complex remains in place until it is repaired.

18
ORDER OF PLAY (continued)

Liberating a Territory

If you capture a territory that was originally controlled by another member of your side, you "liberate" the territory.
You do not take control of it; instead, the original controller regains the territory and the national production level is adjusted.
Any industrial complex in that territory reverts to the original controller of the territory.

If the capital of the original controller (the power whose territory you just liberated) is in enemy hands at the end of the turn in
which you would otherwise have liberated the territory, you capture the territory instead. You adjust your national production
level, and you can use any industrial complex there until the original controller's
capital is liberated.

                                                                                         Multinational Forces

Capturing and Liberating Capitals                                                        Units on the same side can share a
If you capture a territory containing an enemy capital (Washington, Moscow,              territory or sea zone, constituting a
London, Berlin, or Tokyo), follow the same rules as for capturing a territory.           multinational force. Such forces can
Add the captured territory's income value to your national production level.             defend together, but they cannot attack
                                                                                         together. (This does not mean powers
In addition, you collect all unspent IPCs from the treasury of the original              can share income: only the power that
controller of the captured capital. For example, if Germany conquers Moscow              controls a territory collects income for
while the Soviet Union's player is holding 18 IPCs, those IPCs are immediately           that territory.)
transferred to Germany's player. You collect these IPCs even if your own capital
is in enemy hands.                                                                       A multinational force cannot attack the
                                                                                         same space together, because each
The original controller of the captured capital is still in the game but cannot collect  power moves and attacks with its own
income from any territories he or she still controls and cannot buy new units.           units only on its own turn. Any units
The player skips all but the Combat Move, Conduct Combat, and Noncombat                  in a sea zone in which a battle occurs
Move phases until the capital is liberated. If that power or one on its side liberates   that belong to an ally of the attacker
the capital, the original controller can once again collect income from territories he   (other than cargo on an attacker's
or she controls, including territories reverting control to him or her.                  ship) cannot participate in the battle in
                                                                                         any way. Such units cannot be taken
If a capital is liberated, the industrial complex in that capital territory reverts      as losses in the sea combat and have
ownership to the original controller of the capital. Other territories and industrial    no effect on defending submarines.
complexes that were originally controlled by the newly liberated capital's controller
but are currently in the hands of friendly powers also revert control immediately.       An attacking fighter can launch from
                                                                                         an aircraft carrier owned by an ally, but
You do not collect IPCs from the controlling power when you liberate a capital.          the ally's carrier cannot move until its
For example, if the United Kingdom's player takes Moscow from Germany's                  owner's turn. Similarly, an attacking
player, Germany's player does not surrender any IPCs.                                    carrier can carry an ally's fighter as
                                                                                         cargo, but the ally's fighter cannot
                                                                                         participate in an attack by that carrier.

                                                                                         An attacking land unit can assault a
                                                                                         coastal territory from an ally's transport,
                                                                                         but only on the turn of the attacking
                                                                                         land unit's owner. All of the normal
                                                                                         requirements for transports offloading
                                                                                         in a sea zone must still be met by the
                                                                                         attacking power (see "Special Combat
                                                                                         Movement: Transports", page 13).

Capturing a Victory City                                                                 Multinational Defense:
                                                                                         When a space containing a multinational
When you capture a territory containing a victory city, adjust the victory city          force is attacked, all its units defend
totals for each side (keep track of them on a piece of paper, or other means             together. If the defending units belong
chosen by your group). If at the end of the round after the U.S. player's turn your      to powers under the control of different
side controls enough victory cities to achieve the victory conditions you decided        players, those players mutually
upon at the start of the game, your side wins.                                           determine the casualties. If they cannot
                                                                                         agree, the attacker chooses.

                                                                                         Transporting Multinational Forces:
                                                                                         Transports belonging to a friendly power
                                                                                         can load and offload your land units.
                                                                                         This is a three-step process:

                                                                                         1. You load your land units aboard
                                                                                            the friendly transport on your turn.

                                                                                         2. The transport's owner moves it
                                                                                            (or not) on that power's turn.

                                                                                         3. You offload your land units on
                                                                                            your next turn.

                                                                                                                             19
        ORDER OF PLAY

           Phase 4: Noncombat Move

                   In this phase, you can move any of your units that did not move in the Combat Move phase or participate in combat during
                   your turn. You will also land all your aircraft that participated in and survived the Conduct Combat phase. This is a good time
                   to gather your units, either to fortify vulnerable territories or to reinforce units at the front. Your land and sea units can move
                   a number of spaces up to their move values. Your air units can move a number of spaces up to their move values, less the
                   number spaces they may have moved during the Combat Move phase. Air units that did not move at all during the Combat
                   Move phase may use their entire movement allowance in this phase.

                   Only air units and submarines can move through hostile spaces during this phase. Stranded defending fighters also land during
                   this phase. These are carrier fighters whose aircraft carrier has been destroyed in combat or fighter interceptors whose original
                   territory is now under enemy control. These fighters are allowed movement of up to one space to find a friendly territory or
                   carrier on which to land. If no landing space can be found, they are lost. This movement occurs before the acting player makes
                   any noncombat movements.

             Where Units Can Move

                   Land Units: A land unit can move into any friendly territory, including territories that were captured in the current turn. It cannot
                   move into or through a hostile territory (not even one that contains no combat units but is enemy-controlled). Note, this is the only
                   phase in which antiaircraft artillery units can move.

                   Air Units: An air unit must end its move in an eligible landing space. Bombers and fighters can land in any territory that was
                   friendly at the start of the current turn.

                   Only fighters can land in a sea zone with a friendly carrier present. A landing spot must be available on the carrier.
                   Additionally:

                          A fighter can land in a sea zone (even a hostile one) that is adjacent to an industrial complex you own if you will be
                              mobilizing an aircraft carrier that you previously purchased in that zone during the Mobilize New Units phase.

                          In order for a fighter to land on a carrier, both units must END their movement in the same sea zone.
                         You must have a carrier move, remain in place, or be mobilized (new carriers only) to pick up a fighter that would

                              end its noncombat movement in a sea zone. You cannot deliberately move an air unit out of range of a potential safe
                              landing space.

                   Air units that cannot move to an eligible landing space by the end of the Noncombat Move phase are destroyed. This includes
                   stranded defending fighters (see above).

                   Neither bombers nor fighters can land in any territory that was hostile at the start of your turn, including any territory that was
                   just captured by you this turn.

                   Sea Units: A sea unit can move through any friendly sea zone. It cannot move into or through a hostile sea zone.

                   Unlike other sea units, submarines can move through and even into hostile sea zones in the Noncombat Move phase. However,
                   a submarine must end its movement when it enters a sea zone containing one or more enemy destroyers.

                   Transports can move to friendly coastal territories and load or offload cargo, unless they loaded, moved, offloaded, or were
                   involved in combat during the Combat Move or Conduct Combat phase.

                   Aircraft carriers can move to sea zones to allow friendly fighters to land. They must move there, range permitting, if they
                   did not move in the Combat Move phase and the friendly sea zone is the only valid landing zone for the fighters. An aircraft
                   carrier and a fighter must both end their moves in the same sea zone in order for the fighter to land on the carrier.

20
ORDER OF PLAY (continued)

Phase 5: Mobilize New Units

If you purchased new units, you must now move all of them from the mobilization zone on the game board to eligible spaces
you have controlled since the start of your turn, with certain exceptions (see below). You cannot use industrial complexes that
you captured or purchased this turn. You can never use an industrial complex controlled by a friendly power.
For each industrial complex, you can mobilize only as many units as the IPC income value of the territory containing the
industrial complex. This limit includes units mobilized in sea zones adjacent to the industrial complex. For example, the
German player can mobilize 3 units from the Italy territory, either in the territory itself or in sea zone 15.
Each plastic chip (damage marker) under an industrial complex means one less new unit can enter the game at that industrial
complex. Industrial complexes are never destroyed. They can be heavily damaged, however, and can be damaged to the point
where they have at least as many damage markers as they have production ability. In this case, no new units can enter the
game through that industrial complex until it's repaired.

Restrictions on Placement

Place land units and bombers only in territories containing eligible industrial complexes. Land units cannot enter play
on transports.
Place sea units only in sea zones adjacent to territories containing eligible industrial complexes. New sea units can enter play
even in a hostile sea zone. No combat occurs because the Conduct Combat phase is over.
Place fighters into territories containing an industrial complex controlled by your power from the start of your turn, or on an
aircraft carrier owned by your power in a sea zone (even a hostile one) adjacent to a territory with such an industrial complex.
The aircraft carrier may be either a new one currently being mobilized, or an existing one already in place. You cannot place
a new fighter on a carrier owned by a friendly power.
Place new industrial complexes in any territory that you have controlled since the start of your turn and that has an income
value of at least 1. You cannot have more than one industrial complex per territory.
In the event that you inadvertently purchased more units than you can actually mobilize due to production limitations, you must
return the over-purchased units to the box (your choice on which units), and the cost of the units is reimbursed to you.

                                                                                                    21
    ORDER OF PLAY

    Phase 6: Collect Income

    Look up your power's national production level (indicated by your control marker) on the national production chart. This is
    the amount of IPC income you have generated. Collect that number of IPCs from the bank by having the banker add it to the
    total number of IPCs in your power's treasury.

    If your capital is under an enemy power's control, you cannot collect income. A power cannot lend or give IPCs to another
    power, even if both powers are on the same side.

    WINNING THE GAME

    At the end of the United States player's turn, check to see if either side has won the game based on the victory city conditions
    you set at the start of the game.

    Default Condition   "Standard Victory"  Axis: 9  Allies: 10
    Optional Condition  "Total Victory"          13          13

22
UNIT PROFILES

This section provides detailed information for each unit in the game. Each entry provides a quick statistical reference about
that unit's cost in IPCs, its attack and defense values, and the number of territories or sea zones it can move. Each unit type
also has unit characteristics, which are summarized below these statistics.

INDUSTRIAL COMPLEXES (Cardboard Counter)

Cost: 15
Attack: --
Defense: (Air Defense antiaircraft ability)
Move: --

Unit Characteristics
Cannot Attack, Defend, or Move: An industrial complex cannot attack, defend, or move. It cannot be transported. It is not
placed on the battle strip.
Factories: Industrial complexes are the point of entry for all purchased air, land, and sea units. Newly purchased industrial
complexes can't be placed on newly captured territories. Newly purchased combat units can only be placed on a territory you
control that has an industrial complex. All newly purchased units are placed on the map during the Mobilize New Units phase.
You can't place your new units at an industrial complex owned by a friendly power. Even if you liberate a territory with an
industrial complex in it, you can't use the complex; the friendly original controller can use it on his or her next turn. If you
capture it, not liberate it, you can use it on your next turn. You can use an industrial complex that you controlled at the
beginning of your turn.
Air Defense: Industrial complexes can defend against a strategic bombing raid. Before bombers can attack a targeted industrial
complex, they will be fired on by the built-in air defenses of the industrial complex. The industrial complex's controlling
player rolls a die for each attacking bomber. Each roll of "1" scores a hit and eliminates one bomber.
Damaged Factories (industrial complexes): Bombers can damage industrial complexes directly. Plastic chips are placed under
the targeted industrial complex. For each plastic chip that is under a given industrial complex, that complex can mobilize one
less unit. Total damage to an industrial complex cannot exceed twice the IPC value of the territory on which the complex is
located. Industrial complexes cannot be destroyed. They can be heavily damaged, however, and can be damaged to the point
where they have at least as many damage markers as they have production capacity. In this case, no new units can enter the
game through that complex until it is repaired.
The plastic chips, each representing a damage point, can be removed at a cost of 1 IPC each. These repairs are paid for
(and the chips are removed) during the Purchase Units phase of the turn.
Subject to Capture: If a territory is captured, an industrial complex there is also captured. The capturing player can use it on
the turn after it is captured, but any existing damage markers (chips) remain under the industrial complex.

LAND UNITS

Infantry, artillery, tanks, and antiaircraft artillery can attack and defend only in territories. Only infantry, artillery, and tanks
can capture hostile territories. Land units can be carried by transports.

Infantry

Cost: 3
Attack: 1 (2 when supported by artillery)
Defense: 2
Move: 1

Unit Characteristics

Supported by Artillery: When an infantry attacks along with an artillery, the infantry's attack increases to 2. Each infantry must

be matched one-for-one with a supporting artillery unit. If your infantry outnumber your artillery, the excess infantry units still

have an attack of 1. For example, if you attack with two artillery and five infantry, two of your infantry have an attack of 2 and     23
the rest have an attack of 1. Infantry are not supported by artillery on defense.
    Artillery

    Cost: 4
    Attack: 2
    Defense: 2
    Move: 1

    Unit Characteristics

    Supports Infantry: When an infantry attacks along with an artillery, the infantry's attack increases to 2. Each infantry must be
    matched one-for-one with a supporting artillery unit. Artillery does not support infantry on defense.

    Tanks

    Cost: 6
    Attack: 3
    Defense: 3
    Move: 2

    Unit Characteristics

    Blitz: Tanks can "blitz" by moving through an unoccupied hostile territory as the first part of a two-space move that can end in
    a friendly or hostile territory. This complete move must occur during the Combat Move phase. By blitzing, the tank establishes
    control of the first territory before it moves to the next. The second territory can be friendly or hostile, or even the space the
    tank came from. A tank may not blitz through a territory that contains an enemy unit, even if the unit is an antiaircraft artillery
    or industrial complex.

    Antiaircraft Artillery

    Cost: 5
    Attack: --
    Defense: (Air Defense antiaircraft ability)
    Move: 1

    Unit Characteristics

    Limited Move: Normally this unit can be moved only during the Noncombat Move phase. An antiaircraft artillery unit cannot
    move during the Combat Move phase (other than being carried on a transport if the unit was loaded on a prior turn).

    No Combat Value: Even though an antiaircraft artillery (AAA) unit can defend, either alone or with other units, it has a combat
    value of 0. This means that an AAA unit cannot fire in the defending units fire step. It can, however, be taken as a casualty. If a
    territory containing AAA units and no combat units is attacked, the AAA units are automatically destroyed after they fire (see
    "Air Defense", below), but if only air units are attacking, at least one of them must survive the Air Defense in order to destroy
    the AAA. AAA units may never attack.

    Air Defense: An Antiaircraft artillery (AAA) unit can fire only at an air unit when that unit attacks the territory containing
    that AAA unit. AAA units fire only once, before the first round of combat. Each AAA unit in the territory may fire up to three
    shots, but each attacking air unit may be fired upon only once. In other words, the total number of air defense dice rolled is
    either three times the number of AAA units, or the number of attacking air units, whichever is the lesser. For example, five
    fighers attacking a territory containing two AAA units would have five shots fired against them while those same five fighters
    would have only three shots fired against them if there were only one defending AAA unit.

    Once the number of air defense dice is determined, the dice are rolled. For each "1" rolled, the attacker must choose one

    air unit as a casualty. These casualties are removed immediately, and will not participate in the remainder of the battle. This

24  AAA fire occurs immediately before normal combat occurs in the territory containing the AAA unit. AAA units do not defend

    industrial complexes against strategic bombing. Industrial complexes have their own "built in" air defenses (see "Industrial

    Complexes", page 23).
AIR UNITS

Fighters and bombers can attack and defend in territories. Both can attack in sea zones. Fighters stationed on carriers can defend
in sea zones. Both can land only in friendly territories or (in the case of fighters) on friendly aircraft carriers. Your air units
cannot land in territories you just captured, whether they were involved in the combat or not. Air units can move through hostile
territories and sea zones as if they were friendly. However, they are exposed to antiaircraft fire during combat whenever they
attack a hostile territory that contains an antiaircraft artillery unit.

To determine movement range, count each space your air unit enters "after takeoff." When moving over water from a coastal
territory or an island group, count the first sea zone entered as one space. When flying to an island group, count the surrounding
sea zone and the island group itself as one space each. (An island is considered a territory within a sea zone; air units based on

an island cannot defend the surrounding sea zone.) When moving a fighter from a carrier, do not count the carrier's sea zone as
the first space--your fighter is in that sea zone already. In other words, each time an air unit crosses a boundary between spaces,
whether territories or sea zones, it uses one movement point. To participate in combat, a fighter must take off from its carrier
before the carrier moves, otherwise it is cargo.

You cannot deliberately send air units into combat situations that place them out of range of a place to land afterward. In the
Combat Move phase, prior to rolling any battles, you must be able to demonstrate some possible way (however remote the
possibility is) for all your attacking air units to land safely that turn. This could include a combination of combat moves. It could
also include noncombat moves by a carrier or the mobilization of a new carrier. If it does include a noncombat move by a carrier,
then the carrier cannot move in the Combat Move phase.

In order to demonstrate that an air unit MAY have a safe landing zone, you may assume that all of your attacking rolls will
be hits, and all defending rolls will be misses. You may NOT, however, use a planned retreat of any carrier to demonstrate a
possible safe landing zone for any fighter. Once possible landing spaces for all attacking air units have been demonstrated,
you have no obligation to guarantee those landing zones for air units in the course of battle. For example, aircraft carriers
may freely retreat or be taken as casualties, even if this leaves air units with no place to land after combat (such air units will
be destroyed at the end of the Noncombat Move phase). However, during noncombat movement you must provide for safe
landing of as many air units as remains possible after all combats are resolved.

If you declared that a carrier will move during the Noncombat Move phase to provide a safe landing zone for a fighter moved in

the Combat Move phase, you must follow through and move the carrier to its planned location in the Noncombat Move phase

unless the fighter has landed safely elsewhere or has been destroyed

before then, or a combat required to clear an intervening sea zone

failed to do so. Likewise, if you declared that a new carrier will

be mobilized to provide a safe landing zone for a fighter, it must         The U.S. fighter leaves
be mobilized in that sea zone unless the fighter has landed safely         Hawaiian Islands and
elsewhere or has been destroyed.                                            enters sea zone 53.
                                                                           From there it enters sea
Air units can hit submarines only if a friendly destroyer is in the        zone 44, then on into
battle. Whenever a round of combat starts and there is no enemy            sea zone 45. The U.S.
destroyer, submarines cannot be hit by air units.                          fighterthenentersEastern
                                                                           Australia to land. It has
                                                                           used its full movement.

During the Combat Move phase,                During the Noncombat                                                                      25
this U.S. fighter leaves its carrier and  Move phase, the U.S. carrier
enters sea zone 50. From there the        leaves sea zone 52 and enters
fighter enters sea zone 48. The fighter   sea zone 50. From there the
then enters the Philippine Islands        carrier enters sea zone 48.
 territory and conducts combat.           The fighter uses its fourth and
                                          final movement to return to

                                              sea zone 48 and land
                                                   on the carrier.
    Fighters    

    Cost: 10
    Attack: 3
    Defense: 4
    Move: 4

    Unit Characteristics

    Land on Aircraft Carriers: Fighters can be carried by aircraft carriers. Up to two fighters can be on a friendly aircraft carrier
    at a time. A fighter must be launched from the carrier's initial position to participate in combat this turn. However, it can land
    on a carrier in the Noncombat Move phase (even if retreating) or during any other noncombat move. (A fighter cannot land on
    a carrier during the carrier's movement.) Your aircraft carrier can move to a sea zone where one of your fighters has ended its
    move (and in fact, it must do so if it is able) but cannot move any farther that turn.

    A fighter based on a defending carrier must land on the same carrier if possible after the battle. If that carrier is destroyed
    in combat, it must try to land elsewhere. It must land on a different friendly carrier in the same sea zone, move 1 space to a
    friendly territory, island, or aircraft carrier, or be destroyed. This movement occurs during the Noncombat Move phase, before

    the acting player makes any noncombat movements. Carrier-based fighters are always considered to be defending in the air,
    even if only submarines are attacking and the fighters cannot hit them because there is no defending destroyer.

    Each of your fighters based on your attacking carrier launches before combat (even if it is not participating in combat) and
    can retreat to a friendly territory, island, or carrier within range if it survives combat. If any fighter is not in an eligible landing
    space by the end of the Noncombat Move phase, it is destroyed. (Note that an eligible landing space can include a sea zone in

    which a new carrier will be placed in the Mobilize New Units phase, as long as there is a landing space available on it.).

    Bombers

    Cost: 12
    Attack: 4
    Defense: 1
    Move: 6

    Unit Characteristics

    Strategic Bombing Raids: A bomber can either participate in normal combat or make an economic attack against an enemy
    industrial complex. Such an attack on an industrial complex is a strategic bombing raid (see "Strategic Bombing Raids", page 14).
    The maximum total damage strategic bombing raids can inflict on an industrial complex is twice the territory's IPC value.

26
SEA UNITS

Battleships, aircraft carriers, cruisers, destroyers, transports, and submarines move, attack, and defend in sea zones. They
cannot move into territories. For the sake of these rules, the following are surface warships: battleships, carriers, cruisers, and
destroyers. Transports are not part of the group called warships. Submarines are warships, but they are not surface warships.

All sea units can move up to two sea zones. They cannot move through hostile sea zones. If enemy units other than transports
or submarines occupy a sea zone, the sea zone is hostile and your sea units end their movement and enter combat. Submarines
are an exception: They can pass through a hostile sea zone without stopping, unless there is an enemy destroyer present
(see "Destroyers", next page).

Some sea units can carry other units. Transports can carry only land units. Aircraft carriers can carry only fighters.

Battleships

Cost: 20
Attack: 4
Defense: 4
Move: 2

Unit Characteristics
Two Hits to Destroy: Attacking and defending battleships require 2 hits to destroy. If a battleship is hit once, even by a
submarine's Surprise Strike, turn it on its side to mark its damaged status. In the case of an attacking battleship, do not remove
it from play unless it takes a second hit in the same combat. In the case of a defending battleship, do not move it behind the
casualty strip unless it takes a second hit in the same combat. If a battleship survives a combat having taken one hit, return it
upright to the game board.

Offshore Bombardment: Your battleships (along with your cruisers) can conduct offshore bombardment during an amphibious
assault (see "Amphibious Assaults: Step 2. Battleship & Cruiser Bombardment", page 15).

Aircraft Carriers

Cost: 14
Attack: 1
Defense: 2
Move: 2

Unit Characteristics
Carry Fighters: An aircraft carrier can carry up to two fighters, including those belonging to friendly powers. Fighters from
friendly powers can take off and land from your carriers, but only during that power's turn. Any fighters belonging to the
aircraft carrier owner move independently of the carrier. These fighters can make a combat move from the carrier's original
sea zone, or they can remain in the original sea zone until the Noncombat Move phase. Fighters belonging to friendly powers
on attacking carriers are always treated as cargo, because it is not their turn. Your aircraft carrier can move to or remain in a
sea zone where one of your fighters will end its noncombat move (and in fact, it must do so if it is able).

Fighter Defense: Whenever a carrier is attacked, its fighters (even those belonging to friendly powers) are considered to be
defending in the air and fight normally, even if only submarines are attacking and the fighters cannot hit them because there
is no defending destroyer. (However, a fighter cannot be chosen as a casualty from a submarine hit, because submarines can
attack only sea units).

                                                                                                    27
             Cruisers

                   Cost: 12
                   Attack: 3
                   Defense: 3
                   Move: 2
                   Unit Characteristics
                   Offshore Bombardment: Your cruisers (along with your battleships) can conduct offshore bombardment during an amphibious
                   assault (see "Amphibious Assaults: Step 2. Battleship & Cruiser Bombardment", page 15).

             Destroyers

                   Cost: 8
                   Attack: 2
                   Defense: 2
                   Move: 2
                   Unit Characteristics
                   Anti-sub Vessel: Destroyers are specially equipped for anti-submarine warfare. As a result, they have the capability of
                   cancelling many of the unit characteristics of enemy submarines.
                   A destroyer cancels the Treat Hostile Sea Zones as Friendly unit characteristic of any enemy submarine that moves into the
                   sea zone with it. This means that the submarine must immediately end its movement, whether combat or noncombat, upon
                   entering the sea zone. If a submarine ends its combat movement in a sea zone with an enemy destroyer, combat will result.
                   If a destroyer is in a battle, it cancels the following unit characteristics of all enemy submarines in that battle: Surprise Strike,
                   Submersible, and Cannot Be Hit Be Air Units. Note that destroyers belonging to a power friendly to the attacker that happen to
                   be in the same sea zone as the battle do not actually participate in it; therefore, they do not cancel any of these characteristics
                   of defending submarines.

28
Submarines

Cost: 6
Attack: 2
Defense: 1
Move: 2

Unit Characteristics
Submarines have several unit characteristics. Most of them are either cancelled or stopped by the presence of an
enemy destroyer.

Surprise Strike: Both attacking and defending submarines can make a Surprise Strike by firing before any other units fire in a
sea battle. As detailed in step 2 of the General Combat sequence (page 16), submarines make their rolls before any other units,
unless an enemy destroyer is present in the battle. If neither side is eligible for a Surprise Strike, there is no step 2. Players
move directly to step 3 of the General Combat sequence.

Submersible: A submarine has the option of submerging. It can do this anytime it would otherwise make a Surprise Strike.
The decision is made before any dice are rolled by either side (the attacker decides first) and takes effect immediately. When a
submarine submerges, it's immediately removed from the battle strip and placed back on the map. As a result, it can no longer
fire or take hits in that combat. However, a submarine cannot submerge if an enemy destroyer is present in the battle.

Treat Hostile Sea Zones as Friendly: A submarine can move through a sea zone that contains enemy units, either in combat or
noncombat movement. However, if a submarine enters a sea zone containing an enemy destroyer, it must end its movement
there. If it ends its combat move in a hostile sea zone, combat will occur.

Does Not Block Enemy Movement: The "stealth" ability of submarines also allows enemy ships to ignore their presence.
Any sea zone that contains only enemy submarines does not stop the movement of a sea unit. Sea units ending their combat
movement in a sea zone containing only enemy submarines may choose to attack them or not. Sea units can also end their
noncombat movement in a sea zone containing only enemy submarines.

Cannot Hit Air Units: When attacking or defending, submarines cannot hit air units.

Cannot Be Hit by Air Units: When attacking or defending, hits scored by air units cannot be assigned to submarines unless
there is a destroyer that is friendly to the air units in the battle.

                                                                                                    29
             Transports

                   Cost: 7
                   Attack: 0
                   Defense: 0
                   Move: 2

                   Unit Characteristics
                   No Combat Value: Even though a transport can attack or defend, either alone or with other units, it has a combat value of 0.
                   This means that a transport cannot fire in the attacking units' or the defending units' fire steps. Transports may not attack in a
                   sea battle without being accompanied by at least one unit with an attack value.

                   Doesn't Block Enemy Movement: Any sea zone that contains only enemy transports doesn't stop the movement of a sea unit.
                   Air or sea units (other than transports) in a sea zone containing only enemy transports at the end of the Combat Move phase
                   automatically destroy those transports (unless they are ignoring them). This counts as a sea combat for those units. Sea units
                   can also end their noncombat movement in a sea zone containing only enemy transports.

                   Chosen Last: Transports can only be chosen as a casualty if there are no other eligible units. Normally this will occur when
                   only transports are left, but it can also occur under other circumstances. For example, fighters attacking transports and
                   submarines will hit the transports because they cannot hit the submarines without an attacking destroyer present.

                   Carry Land Units: A transport can carry land units belonging to you or to friendly powers. Its capacity is any one land unit,
                   plus one additional infantry. Thus, a full transport may carry either two infantry or a tank, an artillery, or an antiaircraft
                   artillery unit plus an infantry. A transport cannot carry an industrial complex. Land units on a transport are cargo; they cannot
                   attack or defend while at sea and are destroyed if their transport is destroyed.

                   Loading and Offloading: A transport can load cargo from one or two territories in or adjacent to friendly sea zones that it
                   occupies before, during, and after it moves. A transport can pick up cargo, move one sea zone, pick up more cargo, move one
                   more sea zone, and offload the cargo at the end of its movement. It can also remain at sea with the cargo still aboard (but only
                   if the cargo remaining aboard was loaded in a previous turn, was loaded this turn in the Noncombat Move phase, or was loaded
                   this turn for an amphibious assault from which the transport retreated).
                   Loading onto and/or offloading from a transport counts as a land unit's entire move; it can't move before loading or after
                   offloading. Place the land units alongside the transport in the sea zone. If the transport moves in the Noncombat Move phase,
                   any number of units aboard can offload into a single friendly territory.
                   Land units belonging to friendly powers must load on their owner's turn, be carried on your turn, and offload on a later turn of
                   their owner. This is true even if the transport remains in the same sea zone.
                   Whenever a transport offloads, it cannot move again that turn. If a transport retreats, it cannot offload that turn. A transport
                   cannot offload in two territories during a single turn, nor can it offload cargo onto another transport. A transport cannot load or
                   offload while in a hostile sea zone. Remember that hostile sea zones contain enemy units, but that for purposes of determining
                   the status of a sea zone, submarines and transports are ignored.
                   A transport can load and offload units without moving from the friendly sea zone it is in (this is known as "bridging"). Each such
                   transport is still limited to its cargo capacity. It can offload in only one territory, and once it offloads, it cannot move, load,
                   or offload again that turn.

                   Amphibious Assaults: A transport can take part in an amphibious assault step of the Conduct Combat phase. That is the only
                   time a transport can offload into a hostile territory.
                   During an amphibious assault, a transport must either offload all units that were loaded during the Combat Move phase or
                   retreat during sea combat. It can also offload any number of units owned by the attacking power that were already on board at
                   the start of the turn.

30
Notes:

                                                                                                    31
