The Castles

Burgundy

Autor

of

The unique building game about

pastures, goods and dice

Game Idea

t

he Loire Valley during the 15th Century. As influential princes, the
players devote their efforts to careful trading and building in order to
lead their estates to prominence.

Two dice set out the action options, but the players always make the final
choices. Whether trading or livestock farming, city building or scientific
research, many different paths lead to the prosperity and prominence of the
players!
The many ways to gain victory points in this building game require careful
thought round after round along with extensive planning ahead. Thanks to
the different estates, the game remains challenging for the players for a long
time, as no two games play out alike.
The winner is the player with the most victory points at the end of the
game.

Ga m e I de a

h

Players take on the roles of 15th
Century princes in Burgundy
Over the course of 5 phases of play,
players collect the game-deciding
victory points via trading, livestock
farming, city building or scientific
research

The player with the most victory
points at the end is the winner

Game Components
164 six-sided tiles:
_ 7x 8 buildings (beige, 16x with black backs)
_ 7x 4 animals (light green, 8x with black backs)
_ 26x “knowledge” (yellow, 6x with black backs)
_ 16 castles (dark green, 2x with black backs)
_ 12 mines (grey, 2x with black backs)
_ 26 ships (blue, 6x with black backs)
42 goods tiles (square, 7 in each of 6 colours)
20 “Silverlings” (eight-sided)
30 worker tiles (square)
12 bonus tiles (square, 1 small and 1 large in each of 6 colours)
4 victory point tiles (with 100 / 200 points in each of the 4 player colours)
8 playing pieces (2 in each of the 4 player colours)
9 dice (2 in each of the 4 player colours plus 1 white one)
1 game board
6 player boards (double-sided, 4x No. 1, 1 each of Nos. 2-9)

If you are reading these rules for the first time, then we recommend ignoring the bold text in the right-hand column
of each page. These texts form a summary of the rules to assist in quickly re-learning the game, even after not having
played for a longer time.

Game Setup
(Before playing for the first time, carefully punch all the tiles out of the counter sheets.)

Place the Gameboard in the middle of the table. It
shows:
5 phase spaces (A-E)
5 round spaces
6 numbered depots (1-6) each with
four spaces for six-sided tiles and 1 large
goods space
1 central black depot
12 spaces for the bonus tiles
1 turn order track
1 victory point track (0-100)

Place the 20 Silverlings, the 30 worker tiles as well as the white die next to
the game board.
Sort the 164 six-sided tiles according to the colour of their backs and place
them, as separate face-down supplies, next to the game board.
Shuffle the 42 goods tiles (square tiles) face down. Then separate them into
5 face-down piles, each made up of 5 tiles. Place one pile onto each of the 5
phase spaces lettered A through E on the game board. The remaining 17 tiles
remain in a face-down supply for now.
Place the 12 bonus tiles (square) onto the corresponding spaces on the game
board.
Give each player:
- 1 player board, placed with the Number 1 side face up in front of himself
(for boards with the numbers 2 through 9, see the additional information on
page 12);

Ga m e Se t u p
Place the 20 Silverlings, the 30
worker tiles, the 164 six-sided tiles
(sorted according to colour) and the
white die next to the game board
Place 5 piles of 5 face-down goods
tiles onto phase spaces A-E
Place 2 x 6 bonus tiles onto the
corresponding spaces on the game
board
Give each player:
- 1 player board
- 1 “start castle”

- 1 castle (= dark green six-sided tile), to be placed face up onto the dark green
middle space (with the die value 6) of his player board;

- 3 random goods tiles

- 3 random goods tiles from the remaining 17 tiles, to be placed face up onto
the three goods storage spaces in the upper left hand corner of his board: tiles
of the same goods type (= colour) are stored together, different types are stored
separately;
(any remaining goods tiles are not used in the game and are returned to the box)

- 1 playing piece (victory points)

- the 2 dice in his colour;
- 1 playing piece in the same colour, to be placed onto the 0/100 space of the
victory point track;
- 1 Silverling, to be placed in the appropriate storage space in the upper left
hand corner of his board, visible to all other players;
- 1 victory point tile (with 100 / 200), to be placed next to his board for
now.

H 22h

- 2 same-coloured dice
- 1 playing piece (turn order)
- 1 victory point tile
- 1 Silverling

Determine a start player by rolling dice. That player receives one worker tile
which he places onto the appropriate storage space in the lower left hand corner
of his board, visible to all other players. The next player in clockwise direction
receives 2 worker chips, the third player receives 3 and the fourth player
receives 4.
Each player uses their second playing piece to mark the just-determined playing
order on the first space of the turn order track: The start player’s piece should be
on top in the tower and the last player’s piece should be at the bottom.
Give the start player the white die.

Determine a start player and give
each player 1 to 4 worker tiles
depending on play order
Mark turn order on the turn order
track

Give the start player the white die

The Player Boards
Silverling storage

Used die storage

3 goods storage spaces

A size 3 city

Goods storage space for sold
goods

A size 3 river

Victory point table

A size 1 pasture

Summary of the six-sided tiles
Summary of the extra
action (“buy”)

Worker tile storage

Summary of the 4 actions

Storage spaces for six-sided tiles

The estate, with a total of 37 spaces split into regions of various different colours (such
as pastures (light green), rivers (blue), cities (beige), etc.)

The estate’s number (Estate 1 is in the game 4 times, 2
to 9 once each)

The game lasts for five phases (A through E). Each phase consists of five rounds.

Gameplay

Ga m e pl ay

Setup for each phase
At the start of each phase, the following setup is carried out:
- Remove all six-sided tiles remaining on the board and return them to the box
(naturally not required before the first phase).
(Note: Ship, mine and castle tiles can be left in place as they are all the
same! Any remaining goods tiles are also left on the board!)
- Randomly draw new six-sided tiles and place them, face-up, onto the
Don't forget
matching-coloured six-sided spaces in the six numbered depots: In a
2-player game only those spaces marked with 2s (12 spaces), in a 3-player game
only those spaces marked with 2s and 3s (18 spaces), and in a 4-player game all
24 spaces will have tiles placed onto them.
Note: In the three-player game only, there is an exception for the dark green space
in the No. 6 depot: In phases A, C and E a castle is placed onto it as normal, but in
phases B and D a mine (grey) is placed there instead!

H 33h

At the start of each phase:
- all remaining six-sided tiles are
removed (not in the first phase)
- Goods tiles on the depots’ goods
spaces remain
- add new face-up six-sided tiles
from the supply (depending on
number of players)
- place 5 new goods tiles, face-up,
onto the round spaces

- Randomly draw black-backed six-sided tiles and place them, face-up, onto the
black depot in the middle of the game board (draw 2 to 8 tiles, depending on
player number).
- Take the 5 goods tiles for the current phase and place them, face-up, onto the
five square round spaces below the phase spaces.

Th e f i v e rou n ds

The five game rounds
After phase setup, five game rounds follow, each of which is carried out in the
same manner:
First, all players roll their two dice, with the start player also rolling the white
die. Then all players place their dice in front of themselves so that all players
can see them.
Note: Rolling simultaneously allows those players whose turns come later to start
planning their turns ahead of time.

All roll simultaneously
Start player places goods tile
according to white die result

The start player starts. First, he takes the topmost goods tile from the round
spaces and places it onto the goods space of the depot whose number
matches the number rolled on the white die.
With this, the white die’s function for this turn is complete; it cannot be
used by the start player to assist him on his own turn (and can never be
adjusted via worker tiles!).
Thereafter, the start player carries his turn out. It is then the turn of the
next player in turn order (moving from right to left on the turn order
track and from top to bottom in a given tower). Once each player has
had a turn, a new round begins, etc.
As 5 goods tiles are added each phase and since one tile is added to a
depot at the start of each round, it is easy to tell which round the current one is and how long the current phase (and by extension the entire
game) will last.
A player’s turn
… consists of carrying out exactly two actions, one per die. Once a die has
been used, it is placed onto the used die storage space in the upper right hand
corner of the player’s board.
Worker tiles: These may be used at any time (a tile, once used, is returned to
the general supply) to adjust a die’s result up or down by 1. Changing a die’s
result from 1 to 6 or from 6 to 1 is also permitted and also costs one worker
tile. Players may use multiple tiles to change a die’s result multiple times.
Example: By paying 2 worker tiles, Anna can turn a 2 into a 6 and
subsequently take a six-sided tile from the No. 6 depot.

H 44h

Starting with the start player and
then continuing in turn order, each
player uses their dice to carry out
two actions
Each worker tile used can adjust a
die’s result by +/- 1 (including from
1 to 6 or vice versa)

The actions
A die is required for each action. The two actions per turn may be carried out in
any combination and order (including carrying the same action out twice).
 Action “Take six-sided tile from the game board”
The player may take one six-sided tile of their choice from the depot
whose number corresponds to the result of the die used to carry out
the action. The chosen tile is placed onto an empty storage space in the bottom left-hand corner of his board (never directly into his estate!). Should all of
the storage spaces be full, then he must first choose a prior tile to discard (thus
removing it from the game) and subsequently place the new tile onto the newlyemptied space (players should try to minimize how often they have to discard
tiles).
 Action “Add six-sided tile to your estate”
The player may take one six-sided tile of his choice from the storage area in the lower left-hand corner of his board and add it to his
estate. The die chosen to carry out this action indicates which corresponding
empty space he may place the tile onto. All newly-placed tiles must always lie
directly adjacent to at least one previously-placed tile. A tile’s colour must always
match the colour of the space it is being placed onto.
The first tile can thus only ever be placed onto one of the six spaces surrounding the
‘start castle’.
Depending on what type of tile was placed, the following occurs immediately
afterwards:
“Knowledge” (yellow): There are 26 different yellow tiles whose functions are
described in more detail on pages 10 and 11.
Ship (blue): Whenever a player adds a ship tile to his estate (which can occur up
to 6 times), then two things happen immediately :
1. The player takes all of the goods tiles on any one depot’s goods space and
adds them to the goods storage in the upper left hand corner of his board.
Important: the chosen depot is completely separate and independent of the die
result that was used to place the ship!

 Take six-sided tile from the game
board
Die indicates which depot to take
from; place the tile onto an empty
storage space in the bottom left
hand corner of the board

 Add six-sided tile to your estate
Die indicates which empty space
to place the tile onto; tile must be
adjacent to previously-placed tile(s)
and match the space’s colour

“Knowledge” (yellow):
see pages 10 + 11
Ships (blue):
1.) Player takes all
goods tiles from the
depot of his choice and
adds them to his goods
storage

Each player may collect up to three different types of goods (= colours) in his
goods storage. Tiles of the same colour are always piled on top of each other, different coloured tiles are placed next to each other. If, because of this restriction,
a player cannot store all of the goods tiles present in the chosen
depot, then he simply leaves behind any goods he cannot store.
Example: Carla has added a ship to her estate and subsequently
takes goods tiles from the goods space shown: the turquoise one
(which she adds to her other turquoise good) as well as another one
(pink or brown) which she will add to her still-empty goods storage
space
2. The player moves his playing piece on the turn order track one space to the
right. Should this space be occupied, then he places his piece on top of the other
pieces. Should this result in him being start player for the next round then he
also receives the white die.

H 55h

2.) Player moves one space to the
right on the turn order track

Animal (= a region of connected light green spaces): Whenever a player adds
an animal tile to his estate (which can occur up to 6 times), then he immediately receives victory points (and moves his playing piece on the victory point
track forward). Each tile has between 2 and 4 animals on it and the player
receives the corresponding number of victory points for them.
Should the player already have animals of the same type in the pasture (= a
region of connected light green spaces) that the new tile is being added to, then
he scores all tiles with the same animal type again in addition to the newlyplaced tile (see example below).

Important: The animal tiles must be part of the same pasture but do not need
to be immediately adjacent to the newly-placed animal tile.
Tiles with the same animal on them on other pastures are
not scored.

Animals (lt. green):
Provide victory points
depending on how
many animals are
shown on the tile
When an existing pasture is expanded, then pre-existing animals are
scored again

Example: Benno adds the topmost 4-cow tile to his
estate. He receives 4 + 3 = 7 victory points for it.
Should he add another 4-cow tile to this pasture later
on, then he would receive 4 + 4 + 3 = 11 victory points
for it.

Castle (dark green): Whenever a player adds a castle tile to his estate (which
can occur up to 3 times), then he immediately carries out an additional action
of his choice as if he had an extra die with any result he wishes at his disposal.
He could, for example, immediately add another six-sided tile to his estate, or ...

Castles (dk. green):

Mine (grey): These tiles are (with the exception of a few of the yellow tiles) the
only ones without an immediate effect when they are placed (which can occur
up to 3 times). Instead, at the end of each phase, the player receives 1 Silverling
from the supply for each mine in his estate.

Mines (grey):

Building (beige): Whenever a
player adds a building tile to his
estate (which can occur up to 12
times), then he immediately gets to
make a single use of that building’s
advantage.

Buildings (beige):

Allow an immediate
additional action

Provide 1 Silverling
income each at the end
of each phase

Have various uses
depending on building
type

Important : Each of the 8 building types may only occur once per
city (= a region of connected beige
spaces). Depending on the estate,
there may be between 2 and 6 cities of different sizes (1 to 8 spaces).
Estate No. 1, for example, has 4 cities: one 1-size, one 5-size and two 3-size.
Each building provides an advantage immediately after having been built.
These are also shown symbolically at left on the player boards.

H 66h

Don't forget

No identical
buildings in a
city!

The buildings
Warehouse
When a player adds a warehouse to his estate, he may immediately (without
having to use a die!) sell one goods type of his choice out of his goods storage,
exactly as if he had chosen the ‘Sell goods’ action (see page 9).

Warehouse

Carpenter’s Workshop
When a player adds a carpenter’s workshop to his estate, he may immediately
take one beige-coloured building tile of his choice from any numbered depot
(not from the black depot!) and place it onto an empty storage space in the bottom left-hand corner of his board.

Carpenter’s Workshop

Church
When a player adds a church to his estate, he may immediately take one mine
(grey), “knowledge” (yellow) or castle (dark green) tile of his choice from any
numbered depot (not from the black depot!) and place it onto an empty storage
space in the bottom left-hand corner of his board.

Church

Market
When a player adds a market to his estate, he may immediately take one ship
(blue) or animal (light green) tile of his choice from any numbered depot (not
from the black depot!) and place it onto an empty storage space in the bottom
left-hand corner of his board.

Market

Boarding House
When a player adds a boarding house to his estate, he immediately takes 4
worker tiles from the general supply and adds them to his own.

Boarding House

Bank
When a player adds a bank to his estate, he immediately takes 2 Silverlings from
the general supply and adds them to his own.

Bank

City Hall
When a player adds a city hall to his estate, he may immediately add a second
six-sided tile of his choice to his estate from one of his three storage spaces,
regardless of colour (and including all of its effects!).

City Hall

Watchtower
When a player adds a watchtower to his estate, he immediately moves his playing piece on the victory point track forward by 4 spaces.

Watchtower

H 77h

Player sells the goods
type of his choice

Player takes the
building tile of his
choice from the game
board

Player takes the mine,
"knowledge” or castle
tile of his choice from
the game board

Player takes the animal
or ship tile of his choice
from the game board

Player takes 4 worker
tiles

Player takes 2 Silverlings

Player adds an additional six-sided tile of his
choice to his estate

Player receives 4 victory
points

Fundamentally, when placing all buildings:
• Their additional advantages are ‘activated’ via their placement, a die result (=
action) is not required!

Building advantages never need a
die result for activation

• Should a player not be able to make use of a building’s advantage (because,
for example, there aren’t any more blue or light green tiles left in the numbered
depots after having placed a market), then the building may still be added
(although the advantage is lost in this case).
• The supply of worker tiles and Silverlings is not intended to be limited. In the
rare case that the supply is exhausted, please substitute other materials.
Additional rules for placing six-sided tiles:
• Whenever a player takes a six-sided tile from the game board, he must always
first place it onto a storage space in the lower left-hand corner of his board.
This is still the case even if he uses his second action to immediately add it to
his estate.

Never add tiles directly to an estate
from the game board

• Six-sided tiles, once added to an estate, may never be moved or removed.

Tiles added to an estate remain
there until the end of the game

• As soon as a coloured region – regardless of its size – is completely
covered with tiles, then this region is considered to be complete and
scores victory points in two different ways:
1. Depending on its size (1 to 8 spaces), the completed region
scores between 1 and 36 victory points which are immediately
scored on the victory point track.

As soon as a district is completely
covered with tiles, it scores victory
points in two different ways:
1.) Depending on its size (1-8
spaces): 1-36 victory points

2. Additionally, the region – depending on the phase – scores
between 10 and 2 victory points: The empty phase
space (A-E, in the upper right of the game board)
for the current phase indicates how many additional
victory points each completed region (regardless of
its size!) is worth: between 10 in the first phase (A) and 2 in the last phase (E).

2.) Depending on the phase (A-E):
10-2 victory points

• The first player who manages to cover all spaces of one colour in his entire
estate with tiles (by placing his third mine, for example, or his sixth animal tile)
immediately takes the corresponding large bonus tile from the game board. He
immediately scores victory points depending on the
number of players (5 victory points with 2 players, 6
victory points with 3 players or 7 victory points with
4 players).

The first player to cover up all
spaces of one colour in his estate
receives the corresponding large
bonus tile and its associated victory
points (2-4 players: 5-7 VP)

The second player to finish covering up this same
colour takes the small bonus tile and the corresponding 2 to 4 victory points. Third and fourth place receive nothing.

The second player to accomplish
this receives the small bonus tile and
its associated victory points
(2-4 players: 2-4 VP)

Note: As soon as a player reaches or exceeds 100 victory points on the victory
point track, then he places his victory point tile onto his board with the 100
side up. The tile should be placed in the upper right
hand corner, next to the used die storage.
When a player reaches 200 victory points, then he flips his tile
over

H 88h

Action “Sell goods”

Sell Goods

A player may choose to sell all goods of one type from his goods storage.
The die chosen to carry out this action indicates which goods type (=
colour) may be sold. All corresponding goods tiles in the player’s goods storage are
piled, face-down, onto the goods storage space on the player’s board intended for
this purpose. For doing this, the player receives:
- exactly one Silverling from the supply, regardless of how many tiles he just sold (=
turned face-down), as well as
- 2, 3 or 4 victory points per tile (depending on the number of players).

Die result indicates goods type: all
goods of this type must be sold
(= turned over):
• + 1 Silverling per sale
• + 2-4 VP per tile
(with 2-4 players)

Note: A player must always sell all tiles of a type when choosing the “Sell Goods”
action, even if he would like to keep some in reserve.
Take Worker Tiles

Action “Take worker tiles”
Finally, a player may choose to use any die result to take 2 worker
tiles from the general supply. In this case, the die result itself is
meaningless.

Regardless of die result, the player
takes 2 worker tiles from the general
supply

The central black depot
In addition to his two dice actions, each player may, once per turn, choose to
buy one of the six-sided tiles from the central black depot. He may do this at any
point during his turn: before, between or after the dice actions.

Once per turn, each player may pay
2 Silverlings to buy one tile of their
choice from the black depot

To accomplish this, the player must return 2 Silverlings to the general
supply and subsequently place the newly-purchased six-sided tile, as
with any tile from the game board, onto an empty storage space in
the lower left-hand corner of his board.
End of a phase
A phase ends after five rounds. Players with mines now receive the corresponding number of Silverlings. Some of the yellow “knowledge” tiles may also have
an effect. The next phase then begins.

A phase ends after 5 rounds: All
players with mines receive new
Silverlings (and note any “knowledge” tiles!)

Game End

GAME END

The game ends after the fifth phase has been played through to completion. Final
scoring follows, during which players receive victory points for the following:

The game ends at the end of the 5th
phase (= 25 rounds/ 50 dice actions)

- each unsold goods tile: 1 victory point
- each remaining Silverling: 1 victory point
- every two worker tiles: 1 victory point
- each VP-bearing yellow tile (see pages 10 and 11).
	(Note: Six-sided tiles remaining on the storage spaces of a player’s board are

not scored!)

The player who is the farthest along on the victory point track is the winner. In
the case of a tie, the winning player is the tied player with the fewest empty estate
spaces. Should there still be a tie, then the winning player is the tied player who
went later in turn order.

H 99h

The following are scored:
• remaining goods tiles: 1 VP
• per Silverling: 1 VP
• per 2 worker tiles: 1 VP
• yellow tiles: X VP
The player with the most victory
points is the winner

The yellow tiles (“Knowledge”)
The game includes 26 different yellow tiles. Many have effects that take place
immediately after placement, in that they change certain rules. Others only
come into play during final scoring.
1) The player who adds this tile to his estate may ignore the rule that only one
building of each type is allowed in each city. He may thus add as many buildings as he likes, without restriction, to his cities.
2) The player who adds this tile to his estate receives one worker tile from the
general supply in addition to the usual Silverling for each of his mines at the end
of each phase.
3) The player who adds this tile to his estate receives 2 Silverlings from the
general supply instead of 1 each time he sells goods (either via dice action or by
adding a warehouse to his estate).
4) The player who adds this tile to his estate receives one worker tile from the
general supply in addition to the usual Silverling each time he sells goods (either
via dice action or by adding a warehouse to his estate).
5) The player who adds this tile to his estate may, when adding a ship to his
estate, choose to take goods tiles not from one but from two neighbouring goods
spaces and add them to his goods storage.
6) The player who adds this tile to his estate may buy not only from the central
black depot but also from the other six depots (i.e. from all seven). That player
may still only make one purchase per turn.
7) The player who adds this tile to his estate receives 1 victory point more for
each animal tile (i.e. not for each individual animal !) that scores points when a
new animal tile is added.
Example: Benno adds a 3 sheep tile to a pasture that already has a 4 sheep
tile. He scores (3+1) + (4+1) = 9 victory points. Should he later add a 2 pig
tile to this pasture, then it would score 3 victory points.
8) The player who adds this tile to his estate may adjust a die result by up to +/2 per worker tile that he pays.
Example: To make a 3 out of a 6, Carla would now only need 2 worker 		
tiles.
9) The player who adds this tile to his estate may adjust all die results being
used to place buildings (beige tiles) by +/- 1, just as if he had used a worker tile
for them.
10) The player who adds this tile to his estate may adjust all die results being
used to place ships or animals (blue or light green tiles) by +/- 1, just as if he had
used a worker tile for them.

H 1010h

The Yellow Tiles

11) The player who adds this tile to his estate may adjust all die results being
used to place castles, mines or “knowledge” (dark green, grey or yellow tiles)
by +/- 1, just as if he had used a worker tile for them.
12) The player who adds this tile to his estate may adjust any die results being
used to take new six-sided tiles from the game board by +/- 1, just as if he had
used a worker tile for them.
13) The player who adds this tile to his estate receives one Silverling in addition to the usual 2 worker tiles each time he chooses the “Take worker tiles”
dice action.
Note: This tile has no effect when adding a boarding house.
14) The player who adds this tile to his estate receives 4 (instead of the usual
2) worker tiles each time he chooses the “Take worker tiles” dice action.
15) The player who adds this tile to his estate receives 3 victory points at the
end of the game for each goods type that he has sold at least one goods tile of.
Unsold goods are ignored. Note: Players may look at their sold goods tiles at any
time.
Example: Dario has sold the following goods tiles: 4x red, 3x violet, 3x pink
and 1x orange. He receives 4 types x 3 victory points = 12 VP.
16-23) The players who add these tiles (Nos. 16-23) to their estates receive 4
victory points at the end of the game for each corresponding building that has
been added to their estates.
Example: Benno has yellow tiles 17 (watchtowers) and 22 (banks) in his estate
at the end of the game, along with 2 watchtowers and 4 banks. He receives
(2 x 4) + (4 x 4) = 24 victory points for them.
24) The player who adds this tile to his estate receives 4 victory points at the
end of the game for each animal type that has been added to his estate.
	Example: Anna has 1 cow, 1 chicken and 3 sheep tiles at the end of the 		
game. She receives 3 types x 4 victory points = 12 VP.
25) The player who adds this tile to his estate receives 1 victory point at the
end of the game for each sold goods tile. Unsold goods are ignored.
	Should Dario have also owned this tile, then he would have received 11 		
VP for it (see example under tile 15 above).
26) The player who adds this tile to his estate receives 2 victory points at the
end of the game for each bonus tile he claimed, regardless whether they are
large or small.

H 1111h

Those who know the game well
… can make the following changes during Game Setup: After all typical
game setup is complete and players have determined the player order, each
player receives a random player board. Players are free to choose which side
(front or back) of the board they wish to use, as well as which (dark green)
space they will place their starting castle on.
Players should agree ahead of time whether these decisions will be made openly
(one after the other in turn order) or secretly (all players simultaneously).

Author and publisher thank the many playtesters for their
engagement and suggestions, in particular:
Frieder Benzing, Willi Brodt, Susanne Feld, Jonathan Feld, Benjamin Fleck, Thomas
Koslowski, Amos Krämer, Denis Leonhard, Roland Lurk, Michael Schmitt, Aiko
Schuhmann, Marius Stein, Christoph Toussaint, Roland Wilke, Andreas Zimmermann as well as game groups in Bacharach Bacharach, Bödefeld, Gengenbach,
Grassau, München, Offenburg, Reutte and Siegsdorf
Translations by Patrick Korner

Should you have criticisms, questions or suggestions about this
game, please contact us:
alea
Postfach 1150
83233 Bernau am Chiemsee
Fon: 08051 - 970720
Fax: 08051 - 970722
E-Mail: info@aleaspiele.de

228846

Please visit also our website:
www.aleaspiele.de
© 2010 Stefan Feld
© 2011 Ravensburger Spieleverlag

H 12 h

