Livret de règle final anglais_Mise en page 1 17/12/2013 14:01 Page 1

Contents
- One game board inside the box (scoring track)
- 84 cards
- 36 voting tokens in 6 different colours numbered from 1 to 6
- 6 wooden rabbits (rabbeeples!)

Setup
Each player chooses one rabbit and place it on the space 0 of the scoring track. Shuffle the 84 images and give 6 of them to each player. Make a draw pile with the remaining cards.
- With 4 players, each one takes 4 voting tokens (from 1 to 4).
- With 5 players, each one takes 5 voting tokens (from 1 to 5).
- With 6 players, each one takes 6 voting tokens (from 1 to 6).

Note: Do not show your hand of cards to anyone.

Game turn
The storyteller
One player is the storyteller for the turn. He looks at the 6 images in his hand. From one
of these, he makes up a sentence and says it out loud (without showing the card to the
other players).
The sentence can take different forms: it can be made of one word or more, it can even
be a sound. The sentence can be either invented or be inspired from an existing work
of art (poetry or song sample, movie title, proverb, etc).
Who is the storyteller for the first turn? The first player to describe one of their cards
aloud will be the storyteller for the first turn.
Choosing a card for the storyteller
The other players select amongst their 6 images the one that best matches the
sentence made up by the storyteller.
Then, each of them gives their selected card to the storyteller, without showing it to the others.

The storyteller shuffles his card with all the received cards. He then randomly places
them face up on the table. The card on the left will be number 1, the one next to it will
be number 2, and so on…
Finding the storyteller’s image: the vote
The goal of the other players is to find which image is from the storyteller amongst the
displayed ones. Each player secretly votes for the card that he believes belongs to the
storyteller (who doesn’t vote).
To do so, he places face down in front of him the voting token corresponding to the
image he voted for. Once everybody has voted, all the voting tokens are revealed
and placed on their corresponding images.
Note: You’re not allowed to vote for your own image.
Scoring
- If all players have found the storyteller’s image, or if none have found it, then the

storyteller doesn’t score any points and everyone else scores 2 points.
- In any other case, the storyteller scores 3 points and so do the players who found

his image.
- Each player, except the storyteller, scores one point for each vote that was placed
on their image.
The players move their rabbits along the scoring track by the same number of spaces
as points scored.
End of turn
Each player draws a new card to bring their hand up to 6 once more. The storyteller
for the new turn is the player to the left of the current one (and we keep going clockwise for the following turns).

Game end
The game ends when the last card from the pack has been drawn. The player who’s
the furthest on the scoring track is the winner..

Livret de règle final anglais_Mise en page 1 17/12/2013 14:01 Page 2

At the end of this turn, Léa scores a total of 5 points, Julien 3 points and Tom 1 point;
Mathilde and Nicolas don’t score any point as they couldn’t find Julien’s card, and noone has voted for their cards.

Example of turn
5 players are around the table: Julien, Mathilde, Nicolas, Léa
and Tom.
Julien is the first player to find a sentence inspired by an image
from his hand.

For the next turn, Tom will be the storyteller as he’s seated to the left of Julien.

Game Tips

So, he will start the first turn as the storyteller. The sentence he
says to everyone is: « Where is happiness? », referring to the
French movie « Happiness is in the field ».

If the sentence given by the storyteller describes the image too precisely, all the players will easily find it and so he won’t score any points.

After listening to the sentence, the other players have to choose from their hand an
image that will best match the sentence provided by Julien.

On the other hand, if his sentence has very little to do with the image, it’s quite likely
that nobody will vote for him, and again he will score no points.

Léa has those 6 cards in hand:

So the challenge for the storyteller is to find a sentence that is neither too descriptive,
nor too abstract, so that there is a chance that only some players find it, but not all.
At the beginning, this can be fairly hard to achieve, but you’ll see that the inspiration
comes more easily after a few turns.

Variants
2

1

4

3

5

6

Amongst those 6 images, she chooses the 3rd one which is, for her, the closest to
Julien’s sentence « Where is happiness? ». She gives this card to him.
Mathilde, Nicolas and Tom also choose one of their cards and give them to Julien, the
storyteller for this turn.
Julien shuffles his card with the ones he received from the other players and places
them in the middle of the table.

3 players: each player has 7 cards, instead of 6. Every player except the storyteller
gives 2 cards, instead of one. So we end up with 5 displayed cards to choose from.
Scoring: When only one player has found the storyteller’s card, they both score 4
points, instead of 3.
Mimes or songs: in this variant, the storyteller has the possibility to either sing a
song or some music that could be somehow related to the card, or even mime it. The
rest of the game stays the same.
Finally, nothing prevents you from mixing the different variants together or creating
some of your own!

Acknowledgments
5

Jean-Louis Roubira and Régis Bonnessée would like to warmly thank all the people
and organisms that have supported them during this project:

Each player (except the storyteller) is going to vote for the one they think is Julien’s card.

Marie Cardouat, Yolande Albert, Jonas and Noémi Roubira, Christelle and Emmanuelle
Chartier, Sébastien Félix, Michel and Monique Bonnessée, Arnaud Pichon, Claudine and
Hugh Hill-Roubira, Colette Cortey and Benam Mohammadi, Claude and Carmen Roubira,
Jeremy Guetté, Muriel Dhifallah, Pierre, Florence and Thomas Artur, Yves Renou, CROC,
Julie Ser, Valérie Bouchet, the REEL association, David Prieto, Vicente Moreira Rato,
Delirium Ludens Sàrl, Wioletta & Marc Przepiorka, Leonardo Greco, Bastien Lefèvre,
Gavin Wynford-Jones.

1

2

3

4

Once everyone has selected their voting token, they reveal them.

Only Léa has found Julien’s card (number 4). So she and Julien score 3 points each.
2 players have voted for Léa’s card (number 1) and so she scores 2 additional points.
Tom scores 1 point as one person has voted for his card (number 3).

Translation : Bastien Lefèvre - Gavin Wynford-Jones

