ONE NIGHT ULTIMATE WEREWOLF - Official Rulebook

In One Night Ultimate Werewolf, each player takes on the role of a Villager, a Werewolf, or a special character. It's your job to figure out who the Werewolves are and to kill at least one of them in order to win... unless you've become a Werewolf yourself!

CONTENTS: 16 role cards: 1 Doppelganger, 2 Werewolves, 1 Minion, 2 Masons, 1 Seer, 1 Robber, 1 Troublemaker, 1 Drunk, 1 Insomniac, 1 Hunter, 1 Tanner, 3 Villagers. 16 role tokens. 3-10 players.

SETUP: Always have 3 more cards than players. Place a token for each card in the center of the table so everyone knows what roles are in the game. Each player gets one card face-down. 3 cards go face-down in the center.

GAME FLOW: Night phase (roles wake up in order and take actions) then Day phase (discussion and voting).

NIGHT WAKE ORDER:
#1: Doppelganger
#2: Werewolves
#3: Minion
#4: Masons
#5: Seer
#6: Robber
#7: Troublemaker
#8: Drunk
#9: Insomniac
#9a: Doppelganger/Insomniac
Villagers, Tanner, and Hunter never wake up at night.

ROLES THAT WAKE UP AT NIGHT:

DOPPELGANGER: Looks at (but does not switch) one other player's card. Takes on that role and team.
- If views Villager/Tanner/Hunter: becomes that role, does nothing else at night.
- If views Werewolf/Mason: wakes up with them when those roles are called. On werewolf team if views Werewolf, village team if views Mason.
- If views Seer/Robber/Troublemaker/Drunk: immediately does that role's action (does not wake up again when original role is called).
- If views Minion: at end of Doppelganger phase, Announcer tells her to close eyes unless now Minion, werewolves put thumbs up. On werewolf team.
- If views Insomniac: wakes up after Insomniac to check her card.

WEREWOLF: At night, all Werewolves open eyes and look for other Werewolves. If no one else opens eyes, other Werewolves are in center. Werewolves are on the werewolf team.
Lone Wolf Option: If only one Werewolf, may view one center card.

MINION: Immediately after Werewolf phase, Minion wakes up and sees who Werewolves are (they put thumbs up). Werewolves don't know who Minion is. If Minion dies and no Werewolves die, Werewolves and Minion win. If no players are Werewolves, Minion wins as long as one other player (not Minion) dies. On the werewolf team.

MASON: When using Masons, always put both in game. Mason wakes up and looks for other Mason. If doesn't see another Mason, other Mason card is in center. Masons are on the village team.

SEER: May look at one other player's card OR two of the center cards, but does not move them. On the village team.

ROBBER: May rob a card from another player, placing Robber card where other card was. Then looks at new card. Player who receives Robber card is on village team. Robber is on the team of the card he takes, but does not do the action of new role at night. If chooses not to rob, remains Robber on village team.

TROUBLEMAKER: May switch cards of two other players without looking at those cards. Those players are now the role of their new card. On the village team.

DRUNK: Must exchange his Drunk card for any card in center, but does not look at it. He is now the new role in front of him (even though he doesn't know what it is). On that team.

INSOMNIAC: Wakes up and looks at her card to see if it has changed. Only use if Robber and/or Troublemaker are in the game. On the village team.

NO-WAKE ROLES:

VILLAGER: No special abilities but definitely not a werewolf. On the village team.

TANNER: Hates his job and wants to die. Tanner only wins if he dies. If Tanner dies and no Werewolves die, Werewolves do NOT win. If Tanner and a Werewolf also die, village team wins too. Tanner is considered a member of the village but is NOT on their team. If Tanner dies when all werewolves are in center, village team loses. Not on werewolf or villager team.

HUNTER: If the Hunter dies, the player he is pointing at dies as well (regardless of votes). On the village team.

DAY PHASE: After night, everyone discusses who they think the Werewolves are. After discussion, everyone votes simultaneously by pointing at another player. Player with most votes dies. If tie, all tied players die. If all players receive one vote, no one dies.

WINNING:
- Village team wins if at least one Werewolf dies.
- Werewolf team wins if no Werewolves die.
- If no players are Werewolves (all in center), village team wins if no one dies.
- Tanner wins only if Tanner dies (independent win condition).

Publisher: Bezier Games. Designer: Ted Alspach. 3-10 players. ~10 minutes.
