T HE L AW OF

Using This Book
Root contains two rulebooks: this rules reference and the
learning-to-play guide. If you like a conversational teaching
style and many graphical examples, read the learning-to-play
guide. If you like learning from strictly defined, formal rules
in a concise reference style, read this book. The learning-toplay guide also contains instructions on using the winter map
and playing with various faction mixes at all player counts.

Third Printing (December 21st, 2018)

1

Text in small capitals defines key terms.
Text in italics gives reminders and clarifications. Faction icons mark rules that are
modified by the Faction Rules and Abilities section of the Marquise (M), Eyrie
(E), Alliance (A), Vagabond (V), Cult
(L), or Riverfolk (O).

1. Golden Rules

1.1 Rules Conflicts
1.1.1

1.1.2

1.1.3

Precedence. If text on a card conflicts with text in
the rules reference, the card takes precedence. If
text in the learn-to-play guide conflicts with text
in the rules reference, the rules reference takes
precedence.

1.2.2

2.1.2

2.1.3

2.1.4

2.1.5

Use of “Cannot.” Any rule that uses the term
“cannot” is absolute. It cannot be overridden by
another rule unless explicitly instructed.
Simultaneous Effects. If two game effects occur
simultaneously, the player taking the current turn
chooses their order, unless otherwise noted.

1.2 Public and Private Information
1.2.1

II

Hands. Players may only reveal cards in their
hand if explicitly instructed, but the number of
cards in their hand is public information. O
Discard. The discard pile can be searched at any
time.

1.3.2

Agreements. Players are free to discuss the game
during play, but agreements between players are
non-binding.
Cards. Players may only give cards to each other
if explicitly instructed.

1.4 Game Structure

Each player’s turn consists of three phases: Birdsong,
Daylight, and Evening. After a player completes all
three phases, the next clockwise player begins their
turn. Play continues until one player has won the game
(3.1).

2. Key Terms and Concepts
2.1 Cards

Each card has a suit: bird, fox, rabbit, or mouse. Most
cards also have an effect you can craft (4.1).
2.1.1

Birds Are Wild. You can always treat a bird card
as a card of another suit, even if you must spend,
take, or give multiple cards of the same suit. L
I

2

Forced Effects. When you are prompted to discard or give away fox, rabbit, or mouse cards,
you must treat your bird cards as the prompted
suit.

Draw from Shared Deck. Whenever you are
prompted to draw a card, take it from the shared
deck. If the deck is empty, shuffle the discard pile
to form a new deck.
Spend and Discard to Shared Pile. Whenever
you are prompted to discard or spend a card,
place it in the shared discard pile unless it is a
dominance card (3.3). L
Ambush Cards. There are five ambush cards:
one mouse, one rabbit, one fox, and two birds.
You may spend an ambush card for its suit, but it
does not have a crafted effect. You may also play
one in battle to deal hits (4.3.1).
Dominance Cards. There are four dominance
cards matching the four suits. You may spend a
dominance card for its suit, but it cannot be crafted. You may also play one to permanently change
your victory condition (3.3).

2.2 Clearings and Paths

The map of the Woodland is composed of many
clearings linked by paths.
2.2.1

2.2.2

2.2.3

1.3 Negotiation and Deals
1.3.1

Reverse Substitution. If you are prompted to
spend, discard, take, or give a bird card, you
cannot substitute a card of another suit.

2.2.4

Adjacency. A clearing is adjacent to all other clearings linked to it by a path.
Suit. Every clearing has a suit of mouse, rabbit,
or fox.
Slots. Each clearing has a number of slots, shown
as white boxes. Whenever you place a building, it
fills an open slot. You cannot place a building in a
clearing with no open slots.
Ruins. Slots marked with a small “R” begin the
game filled with ruins. Ruins can only be removed by the Vagabond’s Explore action (9.5.3).

2.3 Rivers

Many clearings are linked by rivers, which act as
paths for only the Riverfolk Company. Rivers do not
divide clearings or forests. O

2.4 Forests

Areas on the map enclosed by paths and clearings are
called forests.
2.4.1

Adjacency. A forest is adjacent to all clearings that
touch it without crossing a path, and it is adjacent
to all forests that are separated by only one path.

2.5 Pieces

Each faction has a set of pieces listed on the back of its
faction board. Pieces are limited by the contents of the
game. If you are prompted to place, take, or remove a
piece but you cannot, you must place, take, or remove
the maximum number possible.
2.5.1

Warriors. If you are prompted to place a warrior,
take it from your supply. If one of your warriors is
removed, return it to your supply. ML

2.5.2

2.5.3

2.5.4

2.5.5

Buildings. If you are prompted to place a building, take the leftmost building from its track on
your faction board. If one of your buildings is removed, return it to the rightmost empty space of
its track.
Tokens. If you are prompted to place a token,
take the leftmost token from its track, if any, or
take it from your supply. If one of your tokens is
removed, return it to the rightmost empty space
of its track, if any, or to your supply. MO
The Vagabond Pawn. The Vagabond pawn cannot be removed from the map.
Items. If you are prompted to take an item, take
it from the shared supply on the map and place it
in the Crafted Items box on your faction board. If
you are prompted to remove an item, return it to
the box. V

2.6 Play Area

Your play area is the area around your faction board.

2.7 Enemy

An enemy is any other faction not in a coalition with
you (9.2.8).

2.8 Ruler

The ruler of a clearing is the player with the most total warriors and buildings in that clearing. (Tokens and
pawns do not contribute to rule.) If there is a tie between
players in a clearing, no one there is the ruler. EVL

3. Victory

3.1 How to Win

I

II

3.3.2

3.3.3

3.3.4

3.2.2

Removing Buildings and Tokens. Whenever you
remove an enemy’s building or token, you score
one victory point.
Crafting Items. Whenever you craft an item (4.1),
you score the victory points listed on the card. E

3.3 Dominance Cards

The deck holds four dominance cards, which can be
played to win the game without reaching 30 victory
points.
3.3.1

Activating. During your Daylight, if you have at
least 10 victory points, you may activate a dominance card by placing it in your play area. Remove your score marker from the score track. You
can no longer score victory points. V

Activated Cards. An activated dominance card
does not count against your hand limit, and it
cannot be removed from play. You cannot replace
an activated dominance card with a different one.
Spending for Suit. A dominance card can be
spent for its suit. However, when it would be
placed in the discard pile, instead place it near the
map to show it is available to be taken. L
Taking Available Cards. During your Daylight,
you can take an available dominance card into
your hand by spending a card of matching suit.

4.1 Craft

You can craft most cards from your hand to gain an
immediate or persistent effect.
4.1.1

4.1.2

4.1.3

Each faction has a unique way to score victory points,
but any faction can score victory points as follows.
3.2.1

Bird Dominance. You win the game immediately if you rule two clearings in opposite corners at the start of your Birdsong.

4. Key Actions

The first player to reach 30 victory points immediately
wins the game. If multiple players reach 30 or more
victory points simultaneously, the player taking the
current turn wins.

3.2 Scoring Victory Points

Mouse, Rabbit, or Fox Dominance. You win
the game immediately if you rule three clearings of the suit matching the activated dominance card at the start of your Birdsong.

4.1.4

Cost. To craft a card, you must activate crafting
pieces of the suits listed in the card’s bottom-left
corner. The suit of a crafting piece matches its
clearing. Each crafting piece may be activated
only once per turn. A three-color question mark
denotes a crafting piece of any suit. VO
Immediate Effects. When you craft an immediate
effect, resolve its effect and then discard the card.
If it shows an item, take the matching item from
the supply and place it in the Crafted Items box
on your faction board. If the card lists an item not
in the supply, the card cannot be crafted. EV
Persistent Effects. When you craft a persistent effect, place it in your play area. You may use the
effect as described on the card.
No Duplicates. You cannot craft a persistent effect if you have an identical persistent effect in
your play area.

4.2 Move

When you move, you may take any number of your
warriors or your pawn from one clearing and move
them to one adjacent clearing.
4.2.1

4.2.2

You Must Rule. To take a move, you must rule
the origin clearing, destination clearing, or both.
VO
No Movement Limits. A given piece can be
moved any number of times per turn. If you are
prompted to take multiple moves, you may move
the same or separate groups of warriors.

3

5. Setup

5.1 Standard Setup Procedure
5.1.1

5.1.2

4.3 Battle

When you battle, choose a clearing where you have
warriors or your pawn as the clearing of battle.
You are the attacker. Choose another player in the
clearing of battle to be the defender.
4.3.1

Step 1: Defender May Ambush. The defender
may play one ambush card matching the clearing of battle. If the ambush is not foiled, the
defender deals two hits immediately. Then, the
defender discards the ambush card. If no attacking warriors remain, end the battle immediately.
I

4.3.2

Step 2: Roll Dice and Add Extra Hits. Roll
both dice. The attacker will deal hits equal to
the higher roll, and the defender will deal hits
equal to the lower roll. If the rolls are equal, attacker and defender will deal the same number
of hits. (The use of “will” here reflects that hits are not
dealt until step 3.) A
I

II

III

4.3.3

4

Foil Ambush. After the defender plays an
ambush card, the attacker may cancel its effect by also playing an ambush card matching the clearing of the battle. (The defender
still discards their ambush card.)

Maximum Rolled Hits. The maximum hits
you can deal from rolling equals the number of your warriors in the clearing of battle,
whether you are the attacker or defender. V
Extra Hits. After counting hits from rolling,
the attacker and defender can add extra
hits by using special abilities or other effects
in their play areas. Extra hits are not limited
by the number of warriors in the clearing of
battle.

5.1.3

5.1.4

5.1.5

5.1.6

5.1.7

Step 2: Place Score Markers. Each player places
their score marker on “0” on the score track.
Step 3: Draw Starting Hands. If you are playing
with two players, remove all four dominance cards
from the deck. Shuffle the deck. Each player draws
three cards.
Step 4: Place Ruins. Place a ruin in each slot on the
map marked with an “R” (four in total).
Step 5: Form Item Supply. Place these items on the
matching spaces of the item supply near the top of
the map: 2 M, 2 B, 1 C, 1 H, 2 S, 2 T, 2 X.
Step 6: Gather Other Pieces. Hand out the 16 faction overview cards as desired, and place the two
custom dice near the map.
Step 7: Set Up Factions. In setup order (A, B, C,
etc.), each player follows their faction’s setup instructions, listed in their rules section and on the
back of their faction board.

6. Marquise de Cat
6.1 Overview

The Marquise de Cat occupies the Woodland and wants
to turn it into an industrial and military powerhouse.
Each time the Marquise builds one of her buildings—a
workshop, sawmill, or recruiter—she scores victory
points. The more of the same building she has on the
map, the more points she scores. However, to fuel ongoing construction, the Marquise must maintain and protect a strong, interconnected economy of wood.

6.2 Faction Rules and Abilities
6.2.1

6.2.2

Defenseless. If the defender has no warriors
in the clearing of battle, the attacker will
deal an extra hit. V

Step 3: Deal Hits. Attacker and defender deal
hits simultaneously. Each hit you deal removes
one piece. The player taking hits chooses which
of their pieces are removed from the clearing
of battle, but must choose to remove all their
warriors there before they choose to remove any
of their buildings or tokens there in any order.
(You score one victory point per enemy building or
token removed.)

Step 1: Assign Factions and Starting Player. Assign one faction to each player using any method.
The viable factions at each player count are listed
in the learning-to-play guide (page 22). Determine
the starting player and seating order randomly.
Each player takes their chosen faction board and
all pieces, as listed on the back of the faction board.

6.2.3

Crafting. The Marquise crafts during Daylight by
activating workshops.
The Keep. Only the Marquise can place pieces
in the clearing with the keep token. (Pieces may
be moved into this clearing.) If the keep token is removed, return it to the box.
Field Hospitals. Whenever any number of Marquise warriors are removed from a clearing, the
Marquise may spend a card matching that clearing
to place those warriors in the clearing with the keep
token.

6.3 Faction Setup
6.3.1

6.3.2

6.3.3

6.3.4

6.3.5

Step 1: Gather Warriors and Wood. Form supplies of 25 warriors and 8 wood tokens near you.
Step 2: Place Keep. Place the keep token in the
corner clearing of your choice.
Step 3: Garrison. Place a warrior in each clearing
except the clearing in the diagonally opposite corner from the clearing with the keep token.
Step 4: Place Starting Buildings. Place 1 sawmill, 1 workshop, and 1 recruiter. You may place
them among the clearing with the keep token and
any adjacent clearings, in any combination.
Step 5: Fill Buildings Tracks. Place your remaining 5 sawmills, 5 workshops, and 5 recruiters
on your matching Buildings tracks, filling every
space except the leftmost space of each track.

6.4 Birdsong

7. Eyrie Dynasties
7.1 Overview

The Eyrie Dynasties wish to restore their oncedignified kind to their former glory in the Woodland
by retaking control of the forest clearings. During
their Evening, the Eyrie score victory points based on
the number of roosts on the map. The greater their
presence in the Woodland, the greater their gains.
However, the Eyrie are bound by their Decree, an ever-increasing set of mandated actions promised by their
leader. Each turn, they must take all of the actions on
their Decree, or else fall into turmoil.

7.2 Faction Rules and Abilities
7.2.1

7.2.2

Place one wood token at each sawmill.

6.5 Daylight

First, you may activate workshops to craft cards from
your hand. Then, you may take up to three actions in
any order and combination. After taking three actions,
you may take extra actions by spending one bird card
per extra action.
6.5.1

Battle. Initiate a battle.

6.5.2

March. Take two moves.

6.5.3

6.5.4

7.3.1

7.3.2

Build. Place a building.

II

III

Choose Building. Choose whether you want
to place a sawmill, workshop, or recruiter. Find
the leftmost building of that type remaining on
your faction board. Note that building’s cost,
listed at the top of its column.
Choose Clearing and Pay Wood. Choose any
clearing you rule. Remove wood tokens equal
in number to the building’s cost from the chosen clearing, any adjacent clearings you rule,
or any clearings connected to the chosen clearing you rule through any number of clearings
you rule.
Place Building and Score. Place the chosen
building on the chosen clearing, and score the
victory points revealed on the space under the
building removed from your faction board.

7.3.3

7.3.4

7.3.5

Draw one card, plus one card per uncovered draw bonus. Then, if you have more than five cards in your
hand, discard cards of your choice until you have five.

Disdain for Trade. Whenever the Eyrie craft an
item, they ignore the listed victory points and instead score only one victory point.
Step 1: Gather Warriors. Form a supply of 20
warriors near you.
Step 2: Place Roost and Starting Warriors. Place
1 roost and 6 warriors in the corner clearing diagonally opposite from the clearing with the keep
token. If the Marquise is not playing, place those
pieces in the corner clearing of your choice.
Step 3: Choose Leader. Choose 1 of the 4 Eyrie
leader cards and place it in your Leader Card slot.
Stack the remaining leaders face up near you.
Step 4: Tuck Viziers. Tuck your 2 Loyal Vizier
cards, showing their suit, into the Decree columns
above your faction board as listed on your leader.
Step 5: Fill Roosts Track. Place your 6 remaining
roosts on your Roosts track, filling all its spaces
except the leftmost.

7.4 Birdsong

Your Birdsong has three steps in the following order.
7.4.1

7.4.2

Overwork. Spend a card matching the clearing of
a sawmill, and place a wood token there.

6.6 Evening

Lords of the Forest. The Eyrie rule a clearing
when tied for most combined warriors and buildings there. They do not rule empty clearings. L

7.3 Faction Setup

Recruit. Place one warrior at each recruiter. You
may take this action only once per turn.
I

6.5.5

7.2.3

Crafting. The Eyrie craft before resolving the Decree during Daylight by activating roosts.

7.4.3

Emergency Orders. If you have no cards in your
hand, draw one card.
Add to the Decree. You must add one or two cards
to the Decree, but only one card added may be a
bird card. You may play each card to any column,
and each column can hold any number of cards.
A New Roost. If you have no roosts on the map,
place a roost and three warriors in a clearing with
the fewest warriors where all those pieces can be
placed.

5

7.5 Daylight

7.8.4

Your Daylight has two steps in the following order.
7.5.1

7.5.2

Craft. You may activate roosts to craft cards from
your hand.
Resolve the Decree. You must resolve the Decree,
starting with the leftmost column and moving
right. In each column, you must resolve all of its
cards, but in any order. For each card, you must
take the action listed for its column, as follows. If
you cannot fully take an action, you immediately
fall into turmoil (7.7).
I

II

III

IV

Recruit. Place a warrior in any clearing with a
roost whose suit matches the card suit.
Move. Move at least one warrior from any
clearing whose suit matches the card suit.
Battle. Initiate a battle in any clearing whose
suit matches the card suit.
Build. Place a roost in any clearing you rule
whose suit matches the card suit and which has
no roost.

7.6 Evening

8. Woodland Alliance
8.1 Overview

The Woodland Alliance works to gain the sympathy of
the various creatures of the Woodland who are dissatisfied with their present condition. Each time the Alliance places a sympathy token, they may score victory
points. The more sympathy on the map they have, the
more victory points they score. Gaining the sympathy
of the people requires supporters. These supporters
can also be put toward violent ends, inciting outright
rebellion across the forest. When a revolt erupts, the
Alliance will establish a base. Bases allow the Alliance
to train officers, increasing their military flexibility.

8.2 Faction Rules and Abilities
8.2.1

8.2.2

Your Evening has two steps in the following order.
7.6.1

7.6.2

Score Points. Score the victory points listed on
the rightmost empty space of your Roosts track.

Despot. Loyal Viziers begin on Move and Build.
Whenever you remove at least one enemy building or token in battle, you score one victory point.

8.2.3

Draw and Discard. Draw one card, plus one card
per uncovered draw bonus. Then, if you have
more than five cards in your hand, discard cards
of your choice until you have five.

Crafting. The Alliance crafts during Daylight by
activating sympathy tokens.
Guerrilla War. As defender in battle, the Alliance
will deal hits equal to the higher roll, and the attacker will deal hits equal to the lower roll.
The Supporters Stack. To take various actions,
the Alliance spends supporters, which are cards
on their Supporters stack. Supporters can only be
spent for their suit and do not count against the
Alliance’s hand size. Supporters are face down,
but the Alliance may inspect them at any time.
I

7.7 Turmoil

If you cannot fully take an action in the Decree (7.5.2)
for any reason, you fall into turmoil, as follows.
7.7.1

7.7.2

7.7.3

Step 1: Humiliate. Lose one victory point per
bird card (including Loyal Viziers) on the Decree.
Step 2: Purge. Discard all of the cards on the Decree except your Loyal Viziers.
Step 3: Depose. Flip your current leader face
down and set it aside, choose a new leader from
those face up, and place on your faction board.
Tuck your Loyal Viziers into the Decree spaces
listed on your new leader.
I

7.7.4

8.2.4

A New Clutch. If you must choose a new leader but none are face up, flip them all face up.

8.2.5

7.8 Leaders Reference

7.8.2

6

7.8.3

Builder. Loyal Viziers begin on Recruit and Move.
Whenever you craft, you ignore your Disdain for
Trade special ability (7.2.3).
Charismatic. Loyal Viziers begin on Recruit and
Battle. Whenever you take a Recruit action, you
must place two warriors instead of one.
Commander. Loyal Viziers begin on Move and
Battle. In battle as attacker, you deal an extra hit.

Sympathy Tokens. The Alliance has 10 sympathy
tokens.

II

The Eyrie have four leader cards, as follows.
7.8.1

Removing Bases. Whenever a base is removed,
the Alliance must discard all supporters of matching suit (including birds), and remove half of their
officers, rounded up. If the Alliance has no more
bases on the map and has more than five cards in
their Supporters stack, they must discard down to
five.

I

Step 4: Rest. End Daylight and begin Evening.

8.2.6

Capacity. If the Alliance has no bases on the
map, the Supporters stack can only hold up
to five cards. If the Alliance would gain a supporter but the stack cannot hold it, that card
is discarded. If any bases are on the map, the
Supporters stack can hold unlimited cards.

Placement Limits. A clearing can hold only
one sympathy token.
Terms. A sympathetic clearing is one with a
sympathy token. An unsympathetic clearing
is one without a sympathy token.

Outrage. Whenever another player removes a
sympathy token or moves any warriors into a sympathetic clearing, they must add one card matching the affected clearing from their hand to the
Supporters stack. If they have no matching cards
(including no birds), they must show their hand to
the Alliance, and then the Alliance draws a card
from the deck and adds it to the Supporters stack.

8.3 Faction Setup
8.3.1

8.3.2

8.3.3

8.3.4

Step 1: Gather Warriors. Form a supply of 10
warriors near you.

8.6 Evening

This phase has two steps in the following order.
8.6.1

Step 2: Place Bases. Place your 3 bases on the
matching spaces in your Bases box.
Step 3: Fill Sympathy Track. Place your 10 sympathy tokens on your Sympathy track.
Step 4: Gain Supporters. Draw 3 cards and place
them face down on your Supporters stack.

Military Operations. You may take actions, as
follows, up to your number of officers, in any order and combination.
I

Move. Take one move.

II

Battle. Initiate a battle.

III

8.4 Birdsong

IV

Your Birdsong has two steps in the following order.
8.4.1

Revolt. Remove enemy pieces and place a base
and warriors, as follows. You may revolt any number of times.
I

II

III

8.4.2

Choose Clearing. A sympathetic clearing
matching an unbuilt base.
Spend Supporters. Spend two supporters
matching the suit of the chosen clearing.
Resolve Effect. Remove all enemy pieces in the
chosen clearing. Then, place the base matching the clearing there, and place warriors there
equal to the number of sympathetic clearings
matching the base’s suit. Finally, place one
warrior in the Officers box. (Remember to score
one victory point per token and building removed.)

Spread Sympathy. Place a sympathy token, as follows. You may spread sympathy any number of
times.
I

II

Choose Clearing. An unsympathetic clearing
adjacent to a sympathetic clearing. If there are
no sympathetic clearings, you may choose any
clearing.
Spend Supporters. Spend supporters matching the suit of the chosen clearing. The number
of supporters that must be spent is listed above
the sympathy token.
a

III

Martial Law. You must spend another
matching supporter if the target clearing has
at least three warriors belonging to another
player.

Resolve Effect. Place a sympathy token in the
chosen clearing. Score the victory points listed
on the space revealed on your faction board.

8.5 Daylight

You may take the following actions in any order and
combination.
8.5.1

8.5.2

8.5.3

Craft. You may activate sympathy tokens to craft
a card from your hand.
Mobilize. Add a card from your hand to the Supporters stack.
Train. Spend a card whose suit matches a built
base to place a warrior in the Officers box.

8.6.2

Recruit. Place a warrior in any clearing with
a base.
Organize. Remove one of your warriors from
an unsympathetic clearing, place a sympathy
token there, and score the victory points listed
on the space revealed on your faction board.

Income. Draw one card, plus one card per uncovered draw bonus. Then, if you have more than five
cards in your hand, discard cards of your choice
until you have five.

9. Vagabond
9.1 Overview

The Vagabond plays all sides of the conflict while going
on quests to increase his renown throughout the wood.
Each time the Vagabond improves his relationship
with another faction, or removes a warrior belonging to
a faction hostile toward him, he scores victory points.
He can also complete quests to score victory points. To
move and act effectively the Vagabond must manage his
pack of items, expanding his selection by exploring the
forest ruins and providing aid to other factions.

9.2 Faction Rules and Abilities
9.2.1

9.2.2

9.2.3

9.2.4

9.2.5

Crafting. The Vagabond exhausts H to craft. All
of his H match the suit of his current clearing. If
the Vagabond crafts an item, he may immediately
take it, face up.
Lone Wanderer. The Vagabond pawn is not a warrior, so he cannot rule a clearing or stop another
player from ruling one. The Vagabond pawn cannot be removed from the map.
Nimble. The Vagabond can move regardless of
who rules his origin or destination clearing (4.2.1).
Defenseless. In battle, the Vagabond is defenseless (4.3.2.III) if he has no undamaged S.
Items. The Vagabond’s capabilities depend on
the items he acquires. Items on the Vagabond’s
faction board can be face up or face down. The
Vagabond exhausts undamaged items, flipping
them face down, to take many actions.
I

II

Item Tracks. When gained, T, X, and B are
placed face up on their matching tracks. Each
track can only hold three matching items.
The Satchel. When gained, M, S, C, F, and
H are placed face up in the Vagabond’s Satchel.

7

III

9.2.6

9.2.7

9.2.8

9.2.9

Moving Items. The Vagabond can freely move
face-up, undamaged T, X, and B between
their tracks and the Satchel.

d

Maximum Rolled Hits. In battle, the Vagabond’s
maximum rolled hits (4.2.2.I) equals his undamaged S, face up or face down, in his Satchel.
Taking Hits. Whenever the Vagabond takes a hit
(4.3.3), he must damage one undamaged item,
moving it to his Damaged box. If no undamaged
items remain to damage, the Vagabond ignores
any remaining hits.

e

Dominance Cards and Coalitions. In games
with four or more players, the Vagabond can
activate a dominance card to form a coalition
with the player with the fewest victory points
other than himself, placing his score marker on
the chosen player’s faction board. If there is a
tie for fewest, he chooses one tied player. If the
chosen player wins the game, the Vagabond also
wins. (The Vagabond no longer scores victory points.
He cannot form a coalition with a player who has
already activated a dominance card.)

III

a

b

II

b

c

Improving Relationships. You can improve a
relationship with a non-Hostile faction by taking the Aid action.
Cost. Aid a non-Hostile faction the number
of times listed between their current Allied
space and their next Allied space during the
same turn. (A given Aid action counts toward
only one improvement in relationship.)
Effect. Advance that faction’s relationship
marker one space right on the track. Score
the victory points listed in the new space.

Allied Status. If a faction’s relationship marker reaches the final space on the Allied track,
you are now trusted by the warriors of that faction. This faction is now Allied.
a

b

c

Aiding Ally. Each time you Aid an Allied
faction, score two victory points.
Moving with Ally. Whenever you move
during Daylight, you may move warriors
from one Allied faction with you from your
origin clearing to your destination clearing.
Allied warriors follow the normal movement
rules of their faction and do not gain the
benefit of your Nimble special ability.
Attacking with Ally. Whenever you initiate
a battle, you may treat Allied warriors of one
faction in the clearing of battle as your own.
The maximum hits you can roll equals the
number of that Ally’s warriors there plus
your total undamaged S. You cannot treat

Taking Hits with Ally. In a battle where you
treat Allied warriors as your own, you can
take hits by removing Allied warriors. However, if you take more hits by removing Allied warriors than by damaging items during
the same battle, that Allied faction becomes
Hostile (9.2.9.III). This rule overrides the
condition for becoming Hostile in 9.2.9.III.
Outrage with Ally. If you cause Outrage
(8.2.6) by moving or battling with Allied
warriors, you give the matching card.

Hostile Status. If you ever remove a warrior of
a non-Hostile faction, their relationship marker immediately moves to the Hostile box. This
faction is now Hostile.
a

Relationships. Your faction board shows a Relationships chart, which has four spaces on the
Allied track and one Hostile box. It holds a relationship marker from each non-Vagabond faction
in play.
I

8

Allied warriors as your own if that Ally is the
defender.

d

Infamy. Whenever you remove a piece of a
Hostile faction in battle during your turn,
score one victory point. (Add this to points
scored for enemy buildings and tokens. Do not
score a point for removing the warrior that made
the faction Hostile.)
Moving into Hostile Clearings. You must
exhaust an extra M to move into a clearing
with any warriors of any Hostile factions.
Aiding Hostile Factions. You cannot move
a relationship marker out of the Hostile box
by using Aid, but you can still Aid a Hostile
faction to take crafted items.
Coalition with Hostile Faction. You can
form a coalition (9.2.8) with a Hostile faction. If you do, move their relationship
marker to the Indifferent space.

9.3 Faction Setup
9.3.1

9.3.2

9.3.3

9.3.4

9.3.5

9.3.6

Step 1: Choose Character. Choose a character
card and place it in your Character Card slot.
Step 2: Place Pawn. Place your Vagabond pawn
in any forest.
Step 3: Get Quests. Shuffle your quest deck, draw
3 quest cards, and place them face up near you.
Step 4: Populate Ruins. Take the 4 ruins from the
map, and take the B, M, H, and S items marked
with an “R.” Place one beneath each ruin and then
shuffle each ruin stack. Then, return each stack to
an empty ruin slot on the map.
Step 5: Take Starting Items. Take the items
marked with “S” listed on your character card.
Place any listed T, X, and B items face up on the
matching tracks of your faction board. Place all
other listed items face up in your Satchel. Return
any remaining “S” items to the box.
Step 6: Set Relationships. Take a relationship
marker for each non-Vagabond faction and place
them all on the Indifferent space of your Relationships chart.

9.4 Birdsong

Your Birdsong has two steps in the following order.
9.4.1

9.4.2

Refresh. Flip two exhausted items face up for
each T face up at the start of your Birdsong. Then
flip up three more exhausted items.
Slip. You may move into an adjacent clearing or
forest without exhausting any M, even for moving
into a Hostile clearing (9.2.9.IIIb).

9.6 Evening

Your Evening has four steps, as follows.
9.6.1

9.6.2

9.6.3

9.5 Daylight

You can exhaust items to take the following actions, in
any order and combination. If you exhaust a X, T, or
B on a track, move it to the Satchel.
9.5.1

9.5.2

9.5.3

9.5.4

9.5.5

9.5.6

9.5.7

9.5.8

9.5.9

Move. Exhaust one M to move, plus one M if the
destination clearing has any Hostile warriors. You
may move with Allied warriors (9.2.9.IIb). You
cannot move into a forest. If in a forest, you may
only move into an adjacent clearing.
Battle. Exhaust one S to initiate a battle. You
may battle with Allied warriors (9.2.9.IIc). (Check
your relationship with the defender.)
Explore. Exhaust one F to take one item under
a ruin in your clearing, reveal it, and place it face
up in your Satchel or on its matching track. Then,
you score one victory point. If you remove the last
item from a ruin, remove the ruin.
Aid. Exhaust any one item, and give one of your
cards matching your clearing to any player with
any pieces there (even Hostile). Then, you may take
one item, if any, from that player’s Crafted Items
box, and place it face up in your Satchel or on
its matching track. (Check your relationship with that
player.)
Quest. Choose a quest whose suit matches your
clearing, and exhaust the two items listed on
the quest to complete it. Place the quest in your
play area, and then draw a new quest and place
it near the map. You may score one victory point
per quest of matching suit you have completed,
including this one, or draw two cards from the
deck.
Strike. Exhaust one C to remove a warrior from
your clearing. If a player has no warriors there,
you may instead remove one building or token of
that player. (Check your relationship with that player.)
Repair. Exhaust one H to move one damaged
item to the Satchel (if M, H, S, C, or F) or to its
matching track (if face up X, T, B), keeping the
item on its current side.

9.6.4

An Evening’s Rest. If you are in a forest, move
all items in your Damaged box to your Satchel or
their matching track, and flip them face up.
Draw Cards. Draw one card, plus one card per X
face up on the matching track.
Discard Cards. If you have more than five cards
in your hand, discard cards of your choice until
you have five.
Check Item Capacity. If you have more items total in your Satchel and Damaged box than your
item limit—six plus two per B face up on the
matching track—remove items from your Satchel
and Damaged box until you have items equal to
your item limit, and return them to the box.

9.7 Character Reference
9.7.1

Thief. Start with M, F, T, and S.
I

9.7.2

Tinker. Start with M, F, B, and H.
I

9.7.3

Special Action: Steal. Take a random card
from a player in your clearing.
Special Action: Day Labor. Take a card from
the discard pile whose suit matches your clearing. (You can always take a bird card.)

Ranger. Start with M, F, C, and S.
I

Special Action: Hideout. Repair three items,
then immediately end Daylight.

9.8 Playing with Two Vagabonds

If you have The Riverfolk Expansion, you can play a
game with two Vagabonds by following these rules.
9.8.1

9.8.2

9.8.3

Add Extra Item to Ruins. During setup, use both
sets of “R” items and place two “R” items in each
ruin slot. When a Vagabond explores a ruin with
two items, he may look at them and take one of
his choice. (By taking two Explore actions, he could
take both items from one ruin.) He cannot take an
“R” item that matches an “R” item already on his
faction board. If he explores but does not take an
item, he does not score a victory point, but the
torch is still exhausted.
Randomize Setup Order. Randomly determine
which Vagabond sets up first.
Share Quests. Either Vagabond may complete
any of the three face-up quests. Do not add extra
quest cards during setup.

Craft. Play a card from your hand, and exhaust
the H of listed suit to craft it. All of your H match
the suit of your clearing. If a card requires multiple of one suit to craft, you must exhaust the listed number of H. If you craft an item, you may
place it face up in your Satchel or on the matching
track.
Special Action. Exhaust one F to take the action
listed on your character card.

9

10.4 Birdsong
These final two sections refer to factions
available in The Riverfolk Expansion.

Your Birdsong has three steps in the following order.
10.4.1

10. Lizard Cult
10.1 Overview

Catering to those creatures who have been discarded
by the other factions, the Lizard Cult seeks to overwhelm its foes through sheer force of will. The Cult
relies on word of mouth and beak to spread its gospel,
and new enclaves can spring up anywhere on the map.
Where the Cult rule clearings, they can build gardens,
which will further radicalize the animals that live
there. While other factions spend cards to achieve their
aims, the Cult acts chiefly by revealing cards and gradually drafting the ideal set of followers. Unless used
for scoring, these cards are not spent and are returned
to the Cult’s hand during Evening. However, this gentler approach makes movement and combat operations
difficult, so these actions can only be undertaken by
the most radicalized members of the Cult.

10.4.2

10.4.3

Adjust Outcast. Look at the cards in the Lost
Souls pile, ignoring birds. The suit with the most
cards becomes the new Outcast—move the outcast marker, showing its Outcast side, to that suit.
If that suit was already the Outcast, flip the marker to Hated. If no one suit had the most cards,
the marker stays on its current suit and, if it is not
Hated, flips to its Hated side.
Discard Lost Souls. Discard all of the cards in
the Lost Souls pile to the discard pile. (Dominance
cards become available to take.)
Perform Conspiracies. You can spend acolytes,
returning them to your supply, to perform conspiracies in clearings matching the Outcast, in any
order and combination, as follows. If the Outcast
is Hated, the conspiracy costs one fewer acolyte.
If you perform Convert or Sanctify, you must
complete the conspiracy.
I

10.2 Faction Rules and Abilities
10.2.1

10.2.2

10.2.3

10.2.4

10.2.5

10.2.6

Crafting. The Cult crafts during Evening by activating gardens matching the Outcast suit (10.4.1).

II

Hatred of Birds. Bird cards are not wild for Cult
rituals.
Revenge. Whenever a Cult warrior is removed
while defending in battle, it is placed in the Acolytes box instead of the Cult’s supply.
Pilgrims. The Cult rules any clearings where they
have any gardens. This overrides the Eyrie’s Lords
of the Forest (7.2.2).
Fear of the Faithful. Whenever a garden is removed, the Cult must discard a random card.
The Lost Souls Pile. Whenever any card is spent
or discarded (even a dominance card), place it in
the Lost Souls pile instead of the discard pile. The
Lost Souls pile can be inspected by any player at
any time.

III

10.3.2

10.3.3

10.3.4

10

Step 3: Choose Outcast. Place the outcast marker
on any suit space in the Outcast box. The suit of
this space is called the Outcast.
Step 4: Fill Gardens Tracks. Place your 14 remaining gardens on the matching spaces of your
Gardens tracks from right to left.

Sanctify. Spend three acolytes to remove an
enemy building from an Outcast clearing and
then place a garden of matching suit there.

You may reveal any number of cards from your hand,
placing them face up in front of you, and perform one
ritual per card revealed, in any order and combination
as follows. Revealed cards cannot be used for any other
purposes during Daylight.
10.5.1

10.5.2

10.5.3

Step 1: Gather Warriors. Form a supply of 25
warriors near you.
Step 2: Place Warriors. In the corner clearing opposite from the Marquise’s keep or Eyrie’s starting roost, place 4 warriors and 1 garden matching
the clearing; if both the Marquise and Eyrie are
in play, choose one of the two other corners. Then
place one warrior in each adjacent clearing.

Convert. Spend two acolytes to remove an enemy warrior from an Outcast clearing and then
place one warrior there.

10.5 Daylight

10.3 Faction Setup
10.3.1

Crusade. Spend two acolytes to initiate a battle in an Outcast clearing or to move at least
one warrior from an Outcast clearing and then,
if you wish, initiate a battle in the destination
clearing.

10.5.4

Build. In a clearing you rule matching the revealed card, place a matching garden.
Recruit. In a clearing matching the revealed card,
place a warrior.
Score. Spend the same card you reveal (placing in
Lost Souls) to score the victory points listed above
the rightmost empty Gardens space of the suit
matching the revealed card. You may perform this
only once per turn per suit.
Sacrifice. Place a warrior in the Acolytes box. To
perform this, you must reveal a bird card.

10.6 Evening

Your Evening has three steps in the following order.
10.6.1

10.6.2

10.6.3

Return Cards. Return all cards that you revealed
to your hand.
Craft. You may craft by activating gardens matching the Outcast suit.
Draw and Discard. Draw one card, plus one card
per uncovered draw bonus. Then, if you have
more than five cards in your hand, discard cards
of your choice until you have five.

11. Riverfolk Company

II

11.1 Overview

When news arrived that the Woodland on the shore of
the great lake was descending into all-out war, the Riverfolk Company quickly dispatched its officers to set
up shop. As other factions purchase services, the Riverfolk will be able to further entrench their commercial
interests by building trade posts across the forest. The
construction of these posts is a viable way to score
victory points, but so too is the raw accumulation of
wealth. However, a big treasury makes for an easy target, and so the Riverfolk must balance protecting their
growing treasury with expanding of their operations
into the more dangerous clearings of the forest.

11.2 Faction Rules and Abilities
11.2.1

11.2.2

11.2.3

11.2.4

11.2.5

Crafting. The Riverfolk craft during Daylight by
committing funds to empty spaces on the Trade
Posts tracks.
Swimmers. The Riverfolk treat rivers as paths and
may move along rivers regardless of who rules
their origin or destination clearing. (They can still
move using paths.)
Public Hand. The Riverfolk place their hand face
up above their faction board. If another player
would take a random card from the Riverfolk’s
hand, the cards are flipped face down, shuffled,
drawn from, and then flipped face up.
Funds. To take many actions, the Riverfolk commit and spend funds: warriors in their Funds box.
Trade Posts. The Riverfolk score victory points
when they build trade posts.
I

11.2.6

Buying Services. At the start of another player’s
Birdsong, that player may buy Riverfolk services.
I

II

III

11.2.7

Trade Disruption. Whenever a trade post is
removed, the Riverfolk remove half of their
funds, rounded up, and return the trade post
to the box.

Cost. The buyer must place warriors from
their supply into the Riverfolk’s Payments box
equal in number to the cost of that service listed on the Riverfolk’s Services track.
Number of Services. Each turn, a player may
buy one service plus one per clearing with a
trade post where that player has any pieces.
Vagabond Funds. The Vagabond pays for services by exhausting items—for each item he exhausts to do so, the Riverfolk place one of their
own warriors in the Payments box.

III

Hand Card. The buyer takes any card from the
Riverfolk’s hand and adds it to their hand. (The
buyer may buy this service multiple times as long as
they have access to enough trade posts.)

Mercenaries. During Daylight and Evening of
this turn, the buyer treats Riverfolk warriors as
their own only for rule and for battle against
factions other than the Riverfolk. (The buyer
cannot move them, count them toward dominance,
or remove them except by taking hits.)
a

b

Taking Hits. The buyer must split hits taken evenly between their pieces and Riverfolk
warriors, with the buyer taking odd hits.
Vagabond Mercenaries. The Vagabond cannot buy Riverfolk mercenaries.

11.3 Faction Setup
11.3.1

11.3.2

11.3.3

11.3.4

11.3.5

Step 1: Gather Warriors. Form a supply of 15
warriors near you.
Step 2: Place Warriors. Place four warriors on
any clearing or clearings connected to the river.
Step 3: Fill Trade Posts Tracks. Place the 9 trade
posts on the matching spaces of your Trade Posts
tracks.
Step 4: Gain Starting Funds. Place three warriors
in the Payments box.
Step 5: Set Starting Prices. Place a service marker on one space of each Services track.

11.4 Birdsong

Your Birdsong has three steps in the following order.
11.4.1

11.4.2

11.4.3

Protectionism. If the Payments box is empty,
place two warriors in it.
Score Dividends. If there are any trade posts on
the map, score one victory point per two funds.
(You do not score points for warriors in the Payments or
Committed boxes.)
Gather Funds. Move all warriors on your faction
board to the Funds box.

11.5 Daylight

You can commit and spend funds to take actions, as
follows, in any order and combination. When you
commit a fund, move the warrior to the Committed
box. When you spend a fund, return the warrior to its
owner’s supply.
11.5.1

Move. Commit one fund to take a move.

11.5.2

Battle. Commit one fund to initiate a battle.

11.5.3

Riverfolk Services. The Riverfolk offer three services, as follows.
I

Riverboats. The buyer treats rivers as paths
until the end of their turn.

Craft. Commit funds to craft a card from your
hand. Instead of moving these warriors to the
Committed box, you must place them on empty spaces of the Trade Posts tracks matching the
suits listed on the crafting cost.
I

11.5.4

Export. You may ignore the listed benefit of
crafting a card, discarding it, to place one of
your warriors in the Payments box.

Draw. Commit one fund to draw a card.

11

11.5.5

11.5.6

Recruit. Spend one fund to place a warrior in any
clearing with a river.
Establish Trade Post with Garrison. Spend two
funds to place a trade post and a warrior.
I

II

III

Choose Clearing. Choose any clearing without a trade post that is ruled by any player.
Spend Funds. Spend two funds of the player
who rules the chosen clearing.
Place Trade Post, Warrior, and Score. Place
the matching trade post and one warrior in the
chosen clearing. Score the victory points listed
on the space revealed on your faction board.

11.6 Evening

Your Evening has two steps in the following order.
11.6.1

11.6.2

Discard Cards. If you have more than five cards
in your hand, discard cards of your choice until
there are five.
Set Costs. You may move each service marker to
any space on its track, setting it to a new cost.

Cole dedicates this game to his younger brothers and
sisters, who never let him forget how to play.
Kyle dedicates this game to his children, who have
always requested cute animal drawings.

Key References

Craft (4.1)

Play a card and activate the crafting pieces of the suits
listed in its bottom-left corner. (Vagabond exhausts H.)
The suit of a crafting piece matches its clearing, and you
can activate each crafting piece only once per turn.
If you craft an immediate effect, resolve it and discard
the card. Often these effects will let you take an item
from the supply on the map and score victory points.
If the item supply on the map does not have the listed
item to take, you cannot craft the card.
If you craft a persistent effect, place the card in your
play area. You may use its effect. You cannot craft a persistent effect if you have one of the same name.

Move (4.2)

Take any number of your warriors or your pawn from
one clearing and move them to one adjacent clearing.
You must rule the origin, destination, or both. A given
piece can be moved any number of times per turn.

Battle (4.3)

You can battle in a clearing where you have warriors or
your pawn.

Credits

Step 1: Defender May Ambush. Attacker may cancel
defender’s ambush card by also playing ambush card.

Illustrations by Kyle Ferrin.

Step 2: Roll Dice and Add Extra Hits. Attacker will
deal hits equal to the higher roll, and defender will deal
hits equal to the lower roll.

Game design by Cole Wehrle.

Editing by Joshua Yearsley.
Based on a concept by Patrick Leder.
Development by Leder Games’ St. Paul staff—

Patrick Leder, Cole Wehrle, Jake Tonding, Clayton Capra,
and Nick Brachmann—and by the intrepid Joshua Yearsley.

Graphic design and layout by Cole Wehrle, Kyle Ferrin, Nick Brachmann, and Jaime Willems.

Proofreading by Kate Unrau.
Playtesting by Grayson Page & his amazing group (in-

cluding Martin, Jared, Richard, Tony, Harvey, etc.), Chas
Threlkeld, Drew Wehrle, Blake Wehrle, Corey Porter, Kyle
Kirk, Matthew Root, Mark von Minden, Davey Janik-Jones,
the stalwart players of the First Minnesota, Jim Bolland, Melissa Lewis-Gentry and Modern Myths, Jennifer Gutterman
and Hampshire College, Matthew Snow, Justin Dowd and
the Brass Cat, the whole Owl & Raven crew, Josh Houser,
Brian Peterson, Ethan Zimmerman, Brandi Leder, Heather
Brian, and the many others who have played Root across its
development.

12

The maximum hits you can deal by rolling equals your
number of warriors in the clearing of battle.
extra hits are not limited by warriors. If the defender
has no warriors in the clearing of battle, the attacker
deals an extra hit.
Step 3: Deal Hits Simultaneously. Each hit removes
one piece—warriors first, then buildings and tokens as
chosen by the player taking the hits.

Remember: Score a victory point each time
you remove an enemy building or token.

Setup (5.1)

Step 1: Assign factions, then determine starting player
and seating order randomly. Give board and pieces.
Step 2: Place score markers on the “0” space.
Step 3: Draw and give three cards to each player.
Step 4: Place ruins in the four slots marked with “R.”
Step 5: Form item supply near the top of the map.
Step 6: Gather overview cards and the two dice.
Step 7: Set up factions in setup order (A, B, C, etc.).

