Stonemaier Games presents

1-5 PLAYERS • 115 MINUTES

D E S I G N E D BY J AM E Y S T E G M AI E R
A RT A N D W O R L D BU I L D I N G BY J AK U B R O Z AL S K I
Scythe is a board game set in an alternate-history 1920s.
It is a time of farming and war, broken hearts and rusted gears, innovation and valor.

BACKSTORY

The ashes from the first Great War still darken the snow in 1920s Europa. The capitalistic city-state known simply as “The Factory,”
which fueled the war with heavily armored mechs, has closed its doors, drawing the attention of several nearby countries.
With characters from five factions converging onto a small but highly desired swath of land, who will gain fame and
fortune by establishing their empire as the leader of Eastern Europa?

OBJECT OF THE GAME

In Scythe, each player represents a character attempting to
make their faction the richest and most powerful in Eastern
Europa. Players explore and conquer territory, enlist new
recruits, produce resources and workers, build structures,
and deploy monstrous mechs. A game of Scythe typically
begins with players building up their infrastructure,
exploring the world, then engaging each other in combat.
The game progresses as players place stars (achievements)
on the board, and it ends when a player places their 6th star
on the Triumph Track. You can earn a star for accomplishing
any of the following:
Complete all 6 upgrades
Deploy all 4 mechs
Build all 4 structures
Enlist all 4 recruits
 ave all 8 workers on
H
the board

 eveal 1 completed
R
objective card
Win combat (up to 2 times)
Have 18 popularity
Have 16 power

GOAL

The goal is to have the greatest fortune at the end of the game;
a typical winning fortune is around $75. You can accumulate
coins during the game, but you will earn most of them during
end-game scoring in the following three categories:
Every star token placed
Every territory controlled
Every 2 resources controlled
The amount of coins you earn depends on your level on the
Popularity Track. The higher your popularity, the more coins
you will earn. You can also get a few bonus coins based on
where you built structures.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

2

COMPONENTS
IMPORTANT CONCEPTS
TYPES OF UNITS
SETUP
GAMEPLAY
TOP-ROW ACTIONS
BOTTOM-ROW ACTIONS
FACTION ABILITIES
COMBAT
ENCOUNTERS
THE FACTORY
OBJECTIVES
ALLIANCES & BRIBES
PLACING STARS
GAME END AND SCORING
CHARACTERS
HIGHLIGHTED RULES

GLOBAL COMPONENTS
2 –3
4
5
6–9
10
11 – 13
14 – 20
21
22 – 23
24
25
26
26
27
28 – 29
30
31

1 quick-reference guide

QUICK REFER

GAME BOARD

SETUP

ENCE GUIDE

1. Shuffle
and
their board place the encounter,
spaces.
combat,
2. Shuffle
and objective
9. Place
factory cards
1 worker
cards on
+1 on the
and place
on each of
adjacent
the
3. Randomlyboard face-down. as many as the
10. Place to the home base. two land-adjoin
number
Remove
draw and
4 mechs
ed territories
of players
the rest from
bottom of
place
on
11. Place
the Popularity face-up one
your 6 star the mech spaces.
4. Place
structure the game.
Track.
an
bonus tile
PLAYER MATS tokens on your Faction
5. Separate encounter token
at the
on
Mat.
12. Start with
6. Randomlythe resource tokens each encounter
space
the popularity
and coins
deal a Faction
objective
into the ( ).
position
Mat and
FACTION
cards (
a Player Mat supply.
13. Place
) and coins ( ) and gain
the 6
7. Start withMATS
the
to each player.
squares technology cubes ( ) shown on your number of
the
on the green
( ) shown power position
mat.
14. Place ( ).
(
boxes with
on your
the 4 structures
) and number
8. Place
black
15. Place
your faction mat.
on
of combat
character
cards 16. Place the 4 recruit tokenstheir correspondi
on your faction
ng boxes.
the 6 workers
on the
17. Place
home base.
on the red circle bonus spaces.
your
18. The start action token next Produce action
to your Player rectangles.
player is
the
Play then
proceeds one with the lowest Mat.
clockwise.
numbered
TURN ORDER
Player Mat.
Each player
takes
correspond
a turn by
placing
top and/or ing section of
the
the Player action token
END GAME
on
different bottom action
(in that Mat. You may take the
section
Gain coins SCORING
order).
of your
the
You must
Player Mat
controlled, for each star on
choose
TRIUMPH
from your
the Triumph
previous a
each is basedand every two
Place a star TRACK
Track,
turn.
resources.
on your
on the Triumph
Factory
The amounteach territory
of the requiremen
position
counts as
on the popularity
Track as
of coins
three territories.
once (note:
ts. Each
soon
for
Then gain
achievemen as you complete
track. The
coins
you place there are two
t may only
one do not control based on the
combat
a
be awarded
victory
star, the star, it cannot
the territory). structure bonus
only count
game immediate be lost. When achievemen
each
tile
For
ts). Once
(even if
adjacent
adjacent
a player
ly ends.
you
territory
The player
territory
places a
bonuses,
once.
sixth number
with the
most coins
of units
wins. Break
and
owned,
territories structures, power,
ties (in
CONTROL
controlled,
popularity, order) by:
and stars
A territory
resources
placed.
units on is controlled by
it or if it
a player
has its structure
if it has
A territory
only
OBJECTIVE
but no enemy that player’s
the enemy with a structure
At any time, S
units.
and
gain the units’ player. The enemy units
place a star if you complete
structure’s
enemy units’ is controlled
an objective
on the
abilities.
discard
by
Resources
player does
on one of
the other objective space
not
your cards,
of the Triumph
objective(s
controls on a territory are
that territory.
).
controlled
Track and
CLARIFICA
by the player
TIONS
RESOURCE:
FACTORY ACTION
who
Food,
use resources wood, metal,
Factory
SPACES
card
on territories or oil (not workers).
Structure, action spaces
TERRITORY:
you control
do not
etc.) that
You
A non-Home
action allows
Player Mat give bonuses
to pay costs. may only
as a territory
Base
(Recruit,
one unit
spaces do.
for any game hex. The Home
to move
The factory
UNIT: A character,
twice.
Base does
effects.
Move
not cont
mech, or
worker.

TURN ORDER,

TRIUMPH TRACK,

IMPORTANT

AND END OF

42 combat cards (yellow)

GAME

CONCEPTS

Quick reference

guide created

by Nersi

Nikakhtar

5 player mats
23 objective cards (beige)

1 game board
28 encounter cards (green)

80 resource tokens

(20 each of food, metal, wood, and
oil, either as wooden tokens—regular
Scythe—or realistic tokens—Collector’s
and Art Connoisseur Editions)

12 Factory cards (purple)

2 Power Dials
80 cardboard coins
DESIGNER’S NOTE: Why the name “Scythe”? A scythe is

both an instrument of farming and a weapon of
war, which perfectly encapsulates the combination
of those two elements in the game. Your workers rely
on the protection of your military just as much as
your empire depends on the resources they produce.
“Scythe” is pronounced like “sigh” and the soft “th”
in“smooth”.

5 Riverwalk cards
12 multiplier tokens
+7

+3
+7

+3

12 encounter tokens

5 quick-start cards

6 structure bonus tiles

Promo Items

see note on page 32

FAC TI O N CO M PO NENT S
FACTION

NORDIC

PRIMARY COLOR

BLUE

SAXONY

POLANIA

B L A CK

CRIMEA

W H ITE

RUSVIET

Y E LLO W

RED

1 Faction Mat

1 action token
1 popularity token
1 power token
6 star tokens

6x

6x

6x

6x

6x
3

4 structure tokens

4 recruit tokens

4x

4x

4 mech miniatures

4x

4x

4x
4x

4x

4x

4x

4x

1 character miniature

8 workers

8x

8x

8x

8x

8x

6 technology cubes

6x

6x

6x

6x

6x

IMPO R TA NT CO NCEPT S
TERRITORY

A territory is a hex on the
board labeled with one of
the following terrain types:

FARM

FOREST

MOUNTAIN

TUNDRA

VILLAGE

LAKE

FACTORY

PRIMARY TERRAIN TYPES

HOME BASE

You have a home base that serves as a starting point and as a place to retreat after losing
combat.
IT’S NOT A TERRITORY: A home base is not a territory, so by default you cannot move units, build

structures, or deploy mechs onto any home base, including your own.
EXPANSION FACTIONS: There are two home bases on the game board without corresponding

pieces. These are placeholders for expansion factions.

CONTROL
4

You control a territory if you have at least one unit there (a character, worker, or mech) OR
if you have a structure there with no enemy characters, workers, or mechs. Only one player
at a time can control a territory.

RESOURCES

Resource tokens (wood, food, metal, and oil) remain on the board once produced. You may only spend resources from
territories you currently control.
SPEND RESOURCES FROM ANY TERRITORIES YOU CONTROL: You can spend resources on territories you control for actions related to

territories anywhere on the board. For example, you can spend 3 metal tokens you control on one or more territories to
deploy a mech on the same or a different territory (if you have a worker on that territory).
SUPPLY: When you spend a resource, remove it from the board and place it in the general supply at the side of the board.
When you produce or trade for a resource (details in the Top-Row Actions section, pages 12-13), move it from the supply
to the territory where it was produced. There are no limits to the number of resource tokens in the game—use multiplier
tokens as needed.
WORKERS AREN’T RESOURCES. Resources are wood, food, metal, and oil. Workers are not resources.

EXAMPLE OF RESOURCE CONTROL: In this image, the Nordic

faction controls each of the territories on which
it has one of its units or structures (blue pieces,
including the character miniature with the blue
base). It can spend any of the resources on those
territories. It cannot spend the metal tokens on the
territory on the bottom left because it does not have a
unit or structure there.

TY PES O F U NIT S
Each of the three unit types in the game—characters,
mechs, and workers—share two key similarities:
 hey can move around the board (not over rivers or onto
T
lakes, by default).
They can transport any number of resource tokens.
Each type of unit also has some unique traits that aren’t
shared by the other unit types. These concepts will be
explained in detail later in the rules.

Characters can engage
in combat, can have
encounters, and (once per
game) gain a Factory card
if they end their movement
on the Factory. You are
represented on the board by
your character. You have been
sent on a mission by your
faction’s leader to claim the
uncharted lands surrounding
the defunct Factory.

PLASTIC

Mechs can engage in
combat and, when moving,
can transport any number
of workers. Mechs cannot
transport your character.
Mechs are built for war (and
for discouraging other factions
from engaging in war with
them), and they’re big enough
that they can carry workers
within their iron shells.

Workers can produce
resources and more
workers, deploy mechs, and
build structures. These are
the people of the land who
have joined your cause to
build an empire for you.

WOOD

A visual cue in Scythe is that tokens that take part in combat are made out of plastic
(characters and mechs). All other tokens are made out of wood to show that they do not
take part in combat (workers, resources, and structures).

5

SET U P
BOARD SETUP
ENCOUNTER TOKENS (GREEN COMPASS): Place
1 encounter token on each territory
marked with an encounter symbol on
the board (11 total tokens).

RESOURCES AND COINS: Place the resource tokens (wood, oil, food,

and metal), coins, and multiplier tokens in a supply area
next to the board.
COMBAT CARDS (YELLOW): Shuffle

the combat cards and put
them on the board. If a
combat card would need to
be drawn from an empty
deck, first shuffle the
discard pile to create a new
deck. If both the deck and
discard pile are empty, no
cards are drawn.

TRIUMPH TRACK

POPULARITY TRACK

6

POWER TRACK

ENCOUNTER CARDS (GREEN) :
OBJECTIVE CARDS (BEIGE): Shuffle
Shuffle the encounter
the objective cards and put
cards and put them on
them on the board.
the board.
STRUCTURE BONUS TILE: Randomly select one of the structure
bonus tiles and place it face-up at the bottom of the
Popularity Track.

FACTION SELECTION:

Randomly shuffle the Faction Mats and Player Mats, then
deal 1 of each to each player. Each player should sit near
the home base for their faction with their Faction Mat
and Player Mat positioned in front of them; the seating
order should be Nordic, Rusviet, Crimea, Saxony, Polania
(Clockwise from top).

FACTORY CARDS (PURPLE): Shuffle
the Factory cards and
randomly select X cards
face-down, where X is the
number of players plus 1.
Place those cards on the
board face-down and return
the rest of the Factory cards
to the box without looking
at them.

STARTING CARDS AND TRACK POSITIONS:

Both the Faction Mat and Player Mat indicate your starting cards and track positions in the
boxes on the far right of each mat.

FACTION MAT
COMBAT CARDS: Draw the

POWER TOKEN: Place your
) on the
power token (
indicated level of the Power
Track (on the game board).
Power is the commodity you
will spend in combat.

indicated number of
combat cards. The number
of combat cards you have
is public information,
but the content of those
cards is kept secret from
opponents.

PLAYER MAT
POPULARITY TOKEN: Place your popularity token (heart) on the
indicated level of the Popularity Track on the game board.

COINS: Gain the indicated

OBJECTIVE CARDS: Draw the

indicated number of
objective cards. The
content of those cards
is kept secret from
opponents. After all
players have drawn their
objective cards, return the
objective deck to the board.

amount of coins and place
them on your Faction Mat.
While the number of coins
you have during the game
is not hidden information,
you are never required
to reveal their total value
to other players. The
decisions you make in
Scythe are not impacted
by each of your opponent’s
coin totals.

CHARACTER
Place your character (miniature with the person & animal)
on your faction’s home base.

WORKERS
Place 1 worker on each of the territories connected to your
home base by land (a total of 2 workers).

7

SET U P
continued

PLAYER MAT

Your Player Mat is where you’ll be choosing actions during the game.
WORKERS: Your remaining 6

TECHNOLOGY CUBES: Put 6 technology cubes on your

Player Mat on the green boxes that have a black
square in the bottom right corner.

EXAMPLE

workers (meeples) go on
the rectangles above the
Produce action.

STRUCTURE TOKENS: Your 4
structure tokens (wooden
buildings: Armory,
Monument, Mine, and
Mill) go on top of the
corresponding boxes.
Each player has the same 4
structures.

8

ACTION TOKEN: Place your
action token next to
the Player Mat.

RECRUIT TOKENS: Your 4
recruit tokens (cylinders)
go on the circular spaces
on the bottom row of the
Player Mat.

STARTING PLAYER:

The player with the lowest number in the label on their
Player Mat will go first. Play proceeds clockwise from there.

DESIGNER’S NOTE: The higher-numbered Player Mats offer

slightly more lucrative starting track positions than the
others, as those players are more likely to have 1 fewer
turn by the end of the game than the player who goes first.

FACTION MAT

Your Faction Mat is where you keep your mechs, stars, and coins. Each Faction Mat also shows a special ability in the
upper right corner.
STARS: Place your 6 star tokens at the upper

left near the faction emblem.

Do not put tokens on top
of the Recruit One-Time
Bonuses (bottom left
corner)—you’ll gain these
benefits when enlisting
recruits during the game.

MECHS: Place your 4 mech

miniatures on top of the 4
mech/character abilities.

QUICK-START CARD

We recommend that you don’t try to teach every little
rule to new players. Instead, give each player a quickstart card. This card contains key information about
units on one side, and the other side covers broad
concepts and gives players something specific to do for
their first five turns.
Your first game of Scythe isn’t about devising a
masterful plan or understanding every little rule. Just
jump in and start pushing buttons to see how things
work, referring to the rules when necessary.

RIVERWALK CARD

The riverwalk cards—one per player—are a reminder
as to which factions have the ability to cross into each
home territory if they unlock the Riverwalk mech
ability, as each Riverwalk ability is slightly different.
This ability is explained for each faction on
pages 15 – 17.

9

G A M EPL AY
Scythe uses an ongoing action-selection mechanism (no rounds or phases). Players take
turns one after another until a player places their 6th star on the board, immediately
ending the game.
On your turn, do the following in sequential order:
1. Place your action token on a different section of your
Player Mat than where it was on your previous turn.
2. Take the top-row action on that section once (optional).
3. Take the bottom-row action on that section once (optional).
Thus, you may take a single action, both actions (from top
to bottom), or neither action (but you must still move your
action token). You may use resources gained from the toprow action to pay for the bottom-row action. Also, you may
complete an objective card during your turn (see Objective
section, page 26).

BOLSTER ACTION
(with structure below it)

The costs (red boxes) and benefits (green boxes) on your
Player Mat are shown by the number of empty spaces before
the action is taken. When taking an action, first pay the
cost, then gain as much or as little of the benefit as you
wish. You may only take an action once on your turn, not
multiple times.
10

UPGRADE ACTION
(with recruit bonus on
the right)

After you’ve completed your turn (or as you’re finalizing
your decision on a bottom-row action—it is crucial for
turns to overlap in this manner to keep the game moving
at a steady pace), the next person in clockwise order takes
their turn.

TOP-ROW ACTIONS
BOLSTER ACTION

PRODUCE ACTION

MOVE ACTION

TRADE ACTION

UPGRADE ACTION

DEPLOY ACTION

BUILD ACTION

ENLIST ACTION

BOTTOM-ROW ACTIONS

TOP-R O W A CT IO NS
The top-row actions appear in a different order on each Player Mat, though each action is identical. The Player Mat visuals
and the default costs and benefits explained in this section are based on the starting position of each Player Mat.

MOVE

Do one of the following (“/” means
“or”):
MOVE: Move up to 2 different units

you control (character, worker, or
mech) from one territory (or home
base) to one adjacent territory.
Move one, then move the other.
GAIN COIN(S): Gain $1.

Here are some important notes about how movement works:
RESOURCES AND WORKERS: Units may pick up and drop off any
number of resource tokens during a Move action.
	MECHS: In addition to resources, your mechs can pick up
and drop off any number of your workers during a Move
action. If they do, this does not count as movement for
the workers, just the mech. So you could transport some
workers on a mech, and then one of those workers could
move on its own. You could also use part of your Move
action to move a worker onto a territory with a mech,
then move the mech while carrying the worker.

RIVER
TUNNEL

LAKE

RIVERS AND LAKES: By default, units may not move across rivers
or onto lakes. This rule is broken by some mech abilities
(see Mech abilities for Polania and Nordic, pages 16-17).
	RIVER: A river is a body of water on the border between two

land territories.
	LAKE: A lake is a body of water comprised of an entire

territory hex. It extends from the hex to any adjacent
shoreline. Thus, in the example shown here, if a player
has a special lake-movement ability, they could move
from any of the surrounding territories onto the lake.
TUNNELS: For the purposes of the Move action for any unit, all

territories with the tunnel icon (
adjacent to each other.

) are considered to be

MOVING INTO OPPONENT-CONTROLLED TERRITORIES:
CONTROLLED BY WORKERS

» If your character or mech move into a territory
controlled by an opponent’s workers (and no other
units), its movement ends (even if you have a mech
ability that would allow it to move further). Each of
the opponent’s workers on that territory immediately
retreats to their faction’s home base, leaving behind
any resource tokens. You lose 1 popularity for each of
their workers you forced to retreat—they’re not happy
with you for forcing them off their land (in the case
that you cannot reduce your popularity any further,
the workers are still forced to retreat).
» Your workers cannot move by themselves into
territories controlled by opponent workers.
	CONTROLLED BY A STRUCTURE

» Any unit can move into a territory controlled only by
a structure. The player who controls the unit now also
controls the territory.
CONTROLLED BY CHARACTER AND/OR MECHS

» If your character or mech move into a territory
controlled by an opponent’s character and/or mechs,
its movement ends (even if you have a mech ability
that would allow it to move further). The opponent
still temporarily controls that territory. After you’ve
completed all Move actions, if any of your mechs or
your character share a territory with an opponent’s
character or mechs, combat happens (see Combat
section, pages 22-23).
» Your workers cannot move by themselves into or out
of territories controlled by opponent characters and/
or mechs.
HOME BASE: By default, you may not use the Move action

to move any unit from the board into any home base
(including yours).
ENCOUNTERS: If you move your character into a territory

with an encounter token, their movement ends and they
cannot move again this turn. After resolving all combats
for this turn, if your character is still in such a territory,
discard the encounter token and resolve the encounter (see
Encounters, page 24).
NO LIMIT: There is no limit to the number of same-faction

units that can be on a territory.

11

TO P-R O W A CT IO NS
continued

BOLSTER

Pay the cost ($1) and gain one of the following:
POWER: Increase your power by 2 on the Power Track. Power is the commodity you will spend

in combat.
COMBAT CARD(S): Draw 1 combat card. Combat cards are used to augment the power you spend

in combat (you may spend up to 1 combat card per character/mech in combat). If a combat
card would need to be drawn from an empty deck, first shuffle the discard pile to create a
new deck. If there is no discard pile, no cards are drawn.

TRADE

Pay the cost ($1) and gain one of the following:

RESOURCES: Gain any 2 resource tokens (any combination of oil, metal, food, and/or wood)
and place them on any territory you control with at least one worker on it. You may not take
the trade action to pay for resources if all of your workers are on your home base.

12

POPULARITY: Increase your popularity by 1 on the Popularity Track. Popularity is a commodity
used in Encounters, and it determines your scoring multiplier at the end of the game.

STRATEGY TIP: While producing with workers will provide the bulk of most players’ resources, trading has some
benefits over producing that should not be underestimated. For example, trading for a desired resource
is sometimes preferable to moving a worker to a territory that provides that resource. The action that you
would have spent on movement can now be used for something more productive. Trading also allows players
to access resources that aren’t available in their homeland.

PRODUCE

Pay the cost (depending on what is shown on all exposed red rectangles before taking the
Produce action), choose up to 2 different territories you control, and all workers on those
territories may produce.
On the territories you selected for production, each worker may produce 1 token. The
resource token is placed on the territory where it was produced. If a worker produces
another worker (by producing on a village), after paying the Produce cost, pick up the
leftmost worker of the Produce action on your Player Mat and place it on the village.

TERRAIN TYPE
MOUNTAIN

WHAT IT PRODUCES
METAL
EXAMPLE: If you

PRIMARY TERRAIN TYPES

FARM

FOOD

TUNDRA

OIL

FOREST

WOOD

VILLAGE

WORKER

choose to produce
on two territories
(a farm with 1
worker and a
mountain with
2 workers), you
would produce 1
food on the farm
and 1 or 2 metal
on the mountain.

LAKE
FACTORY

P AYMENT IS REQUIRED: As is the case with any action, you must be able to pay the full cost to take

the Produce action. If you don’t have the coins, popularity, and/or power, you must take
other actions instead.
N O LIMIT: Any number of resource tokens or workers can be on a territory. There are no

limits to the number of resource tokens in the game. If necessary, place a multiplier token
next to resource tokens on the board.
W ORKERS ARE PERMANENT: Once you have a worker on the board, you cannot return it to your

Player Mat.
It is possible—albeit very rare—that players may find themselves in a position where they cannot take any actions (if they
last took a Move action and have no coins, resources, power, or popularity). If that happens, the player must take a “dead
turn” where they choose another section of the Player Mat without taking any of the actions there. We recommend being
thrifty with coins early in the game to prevent this from happening.

13

BOT T O M -R O W A CT IO NS
The bottom-row actions are in the same order on all Player Mats, but the costs and benefits vary. The Player Mat visuals and
the default costs and benefits explained in this section are based on the starting position of each Player Mat.
OVERLAPPING TURNS: Usually when a player starts to take the
bottom-row action (which isn’t interactive but may take a few
seconds to figure out), the next player can start to take their
turn.
COINS: Most of the bottom actions give you at least one coin

when you pay to take that action. We recommend that players
take the coins before implementing the main focus of the
action so they don’t forget to gain those coins. A player may
choose not to take the coins (e.g., if coins interfere with their
objective).

UPGRADE
14

Upgrading improves the efficiency of the infrastructure in
your growing empire. The resource used to upgrade is oil.
To upgrade, pay the cost, pick up a technology cube from
any green box on your Player Mat, and place it on any empty
red box with bracketed borders. Red boxes with solid black
borders are off limits for upgrades.

EXAMPLE: You decide that you want to be able to
Produce on 3 territories instead of 2 (ignore the Mill
for this example), and you want to decrease the cost
of enlisting a recruit by 1 food. By taking the Upgrade
action, in addition to paying the oil cost and gaining
the coin benefit, pick up any technology cube from a
green box (in this case, the Produce action benefit)
and move it to any red box with bracketed borders
(in this case, the Enlist action cost).

COMPLETING ACTIONS: Eventually you may “complete” a bottom-

row action (e.g., with the Upgrade action, at some point you
may have nothing more to upgrade). After that point you may
continue to pay the cost of the action to gain the coins (and
the recruit bonus, if applicable).
RECRUITS: Each of the bottom actions has a Recruit Ongoing
Bonus (green circle). If it is exposed, it rewards a player when
they or adjacent opponents take this action. See the Enlist
section for details (page 20).

DEPLOY

You can deploy mechs (miniatures) to protect your workers,
expand your empire, and add new abilities to your character
and other mechs. The resource used to deploy mechs is metal.
To deploy a mech, pay the cost, choose any mech on your
Faction Mat, and place that mech on a territory you control
with at least one worker on it. You can’t deploy mechs on lakes
(even if your faction has mech abilities allowing your mechs to
move onto lakes).
From now on, your character and all mechs (not your workers)
gain the ability on the Faction Mat that was under the mech
miniature. These abilities vary from faction to faction.

SAXONY
15

RIVERWALK: Your character and mechs can move across rivers

SPEED: Your character and mechs may move one additional

onto forests and mountains.

territory when moving. If any of those units move into a
territory containing an opponent’s character, mech, or
worker, their movement ends and they cannot move again
this turn. Moving from one tunnel to another still counts
as 1 move, so with this ability you could move an additional
territory before or after moving through a tunnel. Your
mechs can pick up and drop off resources and workers
in the middle of a Move action when they have the Speed
ability.

UNDERPASS: For the purposes of Move actions for your

character and mechs, mountains you control and all
tunnels are considered to be adjacent to each other. For
example, if your mech is on a mountain, it can move from
that mountain to (a) any other mountain you control or (b)
any tunnel (or your Mine).
DISARM: Before you engage in combat on a territory with

a tunnel or your Mine, the combating opponent loses 2
power. This loss of power is reflected on the Power Track.
You may do this once per combat, not once per unit.

BOT T O M -R O W A CT IO NS
continued

RUSVIET

RIVERWALK: Your character and mechs can move across rivers
onto farms and villages.

16

TOWNSHIP : For the purposes of Move actions for your
character and mechs, villages you control and the Factory
are considered to be adjacent to each other. For example,
if your mech is on a village, it can move from that village to
(a) any other village you control or (b) the Factory.

PEOPLE’S ARMY: In combat where you have at least 1 worker,
you may play one additional combat card. You still require
a character or mech to participate in combat. For example,
if you have 2 mechs and 3 workers in combat, you may play
up to 3 combat cards (1 for each of the mechs and 1 because
you have at least 1 worker).
SPEED: Your character and mechs may move one additional
territory per movement. See page 15 for full details.

NORDIC

RIVERWALK: Your character and mechs can move across rivers
onto forests and mountains.
SEAWORTHY: Your character and mechs can move to and from
lakes and retreat onto adjacent lakes (you may still also
retreat those units to your home base). This allows for
lake hexes to be treated the same as other territories for
movement. If a mech transports workers onto a lake (during
a Move action or when retreating) or if a character or mech
transports resources onto a lake, you may not leave those
workers or resources on the lake after moving off of it, nor

may a worker move off of the lake without the assistance of
the mech. Lakes are territories, so if two factions have a lakemovement ability, it’s possible for combat to happen on a
lake. You cannot build a structure or deploy a mech on a lake.
ARTILLERY: Before you engage in combat, you may pay 1 power

to force the combating opponent to lose 2 power. This loss
of power is reflected on the Power Track. You may do this
once per combat, not once per unit.
SPEED: Your character and mechs may move one additional
territory per movement. See page 15 for full details.

CRIMEA

RIVERWALK: Your character and mechs can move across rivers

onto farms and tundra.
WAYFARE: Your character and mechs may move from a
territory or home base to any inactive faction’s home
base or your own regardless of the distance. An “inactive
faction” is any faction not currently in the game, including
the expansion factions. Normally players may not move
into any home base, but this is an exception to that rule.

SCOUT: Before you engage in combat, steal one of the
opponent’s combat cards at random and add it to your
hand. You may do this once per combat, not once per unit.
SPEED: Your character and mechs may move one additional

territory per movement. See page 15 for full details.
17

POLANIA

RIVERWALK : Your character and mechs can move across rivers
onto villages and mountains.
SUBMERGE: Your character and mechs may move to and from lakes
and move from any lake to another (similar to tunnel movement,
but with lakes). If a mech transports workers onto a lake or if a
character or mech transports resources onto a lake, you may not
leave those workers or resources on the lake after moving off of
it, nor may a worker move off of the lake without the assistance of
the mech. Lakes are territories, so if two factions have a lakemovement ability, it’s possible for combat to happen on a lake.
You cannot build a structure or deploy a mech on a lake.

CAMARADERIE: You do not lose popularity when forcing an

opponent’s workers to retreat after winning combat as the
aggressor. This applies any time on your turn when your
character or mechs force an opponent’s workers to retreat
after combat.
SPEED: Your character and mechs may move one additional

territory per movement. See page 15 for full details.

BOT T O M -R O W A CT IO NS
continued

BUILD

You can build structures (structure tokens) to enhance your actions, control territories,
and get end-game bonuses. The resource used to build structures is wood.
To build a structure, pay the cost, pick up any structure from your Player Mat, and place it
on a territory you control with at least one worker on it.
	LIMIT 1 PER TERRITORY: Only 1 structure can be built on each territory. So if you’re the first

player to build a structure on a specific territory, neither you nor any opponent may
build another structure there.
	STRUCTURE CONTROL: Opponents can’t use your structure abilities. You always get the abilities

from your structures even if you don’t control the territories they’re on (except for the
Mill--you can’t Produce on the Mill’s territory if you don’t control that territory).
	TERRITORY CONTROL: A territory with one of your structures on it is under your control even

if you have no units there. However, if an opponent’s unit is on a territory with your
structure, that territory is under their control.
PERMANENCE: Structures cannot be destroyed or moved.
FACTORY: You may build on the Factory territory.
	PLACES YOU CAN’T BUILD: Your home base isn’t a territory, so you can’t build there. You also

can’t build structures on lakes.
18

	ONGOING BONUS: The benefit revealed by removing a structure from your Player Mat is an

additional benefit you will gain when taking the top-row action directly above it in the
future.

MONUMENT: Whenever you take

MILL: Whenever you take
the Bolster action, also gain 1 the Produce action, the
popularity.
territory with the Mill may
count as an extra (bonus)
territory for production.
The Mill will produce as if
it were a worker. If there
are actual workers on the
Mill territory, they may also
produce resources.

ARMORY: Whenever you take
MINE: The Mine acts as a
tunnel that only you can use. the Trade action, also gain
1 power.
You may move units to and
from your Mine as if it is a
tunnel (even if an opponent
controls the territory the
Mine is on). Unlike the other
structures, this is an ongoing
ability associated with all
unit movement.

	END-GAME BONUS: At the end of the game, players will gain coins for achieving the

goals shown on the structure bonus tile that was randomly selected during
setup. You gain this bonus even if you don’t control the territories the structures
are on. This bonus represents how property values have strengthened your
expanding empire.

EXAMPLE: The structure

bonus for this game
is for the number of
lakes adjacent to your
structures. If you had
the two structures
positioned as shown
here, you would gain
coins for 4 lakes (a
total of $6). You gain
those coins even if
you do not control
the territories your
structures are on.
The 6 structure bonus tiles are as follows:

19
Number of tunnel
territories adjacent to your
structures. Only count each
tunnel once. A Mine does
not count as a tunnel for
this purpose, and rivers do
not break adjacency.

Number of lakes adjacent to
your structures. Only count
each lake once.

Number of encounters
adjacent to your structures.
Only count each encounter
once. These count whether
or not the encounter tokens
are still there. Rivers do not
break adjacency.

Number of tunnel
territories with your
structures on them. A Mine
does not count as a tunnel
for this purpose.

Number of your structures
in a row (any continuous
straight line is fine; only
count the longest row of
structures you have; rivers
do not break continuity).

Number of farms and
tundras with your structures
on them.

ENLIST

You can enlist new recruits (cylindrical tokens) to join your
forces. The resource used to enlist recruits is food.
ONE-TIME BONUS: To enlist a recruit, pay the cost, pick up a
recruit token from any section of your Player Mat, place
it on any open Recruit One-Time Bonus space on your
Faction Mat, and immediately gain the depicted bonus.
This represents what your new recruit is immediately
contributing to your forces. The token remains there
permanently—it can’t be moved.

The four one-time bonuses are:
Gain 2 power
Gain 2 coins
Gain 2 popularity
Draw 2 combat cards
ONGOING BONUS: In addition to the one-time bonus, each

20

recruit gives you a Recruit Ongoing Bonus related to the
action from which you selected the recruit token (the bonus
in the circle). This represents a skill the recruit brings to
your force.
For the rest of the game, whenever you or the player to your
immediate left or right (these players are shown in the icon
in the red circle) take the bottom-row action in the section
of the Player Mat from which the recruit was taken, you
may gain the specified bonus. Top-row actions or a similar
action on a Factory card (see Factory section, page 25) do
not count.
	PLAYER ORDER: If more than one player would gain a Recruit

Ongoing Bonus, the active player goes first, followed by
the player to their left, then the player on their right. If
one of those players places their 6th star as a result, the
game immediately ends (see Game End and Scoring,
page 28).
	PROCLAMATION: You must announce when you take bottom-

row actions so adjacent players know to check for
Recruit Ongoing Bonuses.
T WO-PLAYER RULES: In a 2-player game,whenever your

opponent takes an action that would give you a Recruit
Ongoing Bonus, you only gain it once.

EXAMPLE: Whenever the blue (Nordic)

player OR the player to the left or
right of the Nordic player takes
the Build action, the Nordic player
gains 1 popularity, which is in the
green circle.

FAC T IO N A B IL IT IES
Each faction has a special ability indicated at the upper right of the Faction Mat.
RUSVIET (RELENTLESS): You may choose the same section on your Player Mat as the

previous turn(s).
	The Rusviets push their people hard, day after day, to achieve their ultimate goal. While
other factions let their infrastructure take a break from turn to turn, the Rusviet faction
may choose the same section of their Player Mat as the previous turn(s). This ability
also applies to a Factory card if you have one (see Factory section).
CRIMEA (COERCION): Once per turn, you may spend 1 combat card as if it were any

1 resource token.
	The Crimean faction has a longstanding tradition of selling information to the highest
bidder. They may spend 1 combat card per turn as if it were a resource to pay for
something (1 combat card = any 1 resource token, regardless of the number on the
combat card). Combat cards are still worth nothing at the end of the game.
NORDIC (SWIM): Your workers may move across rivers.

	Nordic workers are accomplished swimmers who refuse to complain even when wading
through the coldest of waters. They may move across rivers onto any type of terrain
(except lakes). This ability applies only to workers, not the character and mechs.
21
POLANIA (MEANDER): Pick up to 2 options per encounter card.

	Thanks to Anna’s charismatic bear companion, Wojtek, the pair tend to stretch short
encounters into longer adventures. Instead of picking just 1 option per encounter card,
the Polanian faction may choose up to 2 different options per encounter card in any
order. The benefit from the first selected option may be used to pay the cost for the
second selected option. Only one encounter card is drawn.
SAXONY (DOMINATE): There is no limit to the number of stars you can place from completing
objectives or winning combat.

	Saxony’s methodical approach to conquering the eastern lands surrounding the
Factory is all about asserting force and completing specific missions. The Saxon faction
may complete both of their objective cards (they don’t discard the second card after
achieving the first), and they are not limited to 2 combat victory stars. If Saxony has
available stars, after winning combat, they must place the star.
DESIGNER’S NOTE: One of the subtle benefits of some of these faction abilities is that they

help to teach and remind players of the global rules of Scythe...by breaking those rules.
For example, when you read that the Rusviet faction can choose the same section of their
Player Mat on subsequent turns, you also learn that under normal circumstances, you
can’t choose the same section twice in a row. In a game with lots of rules to remember, I
found that these subtle reminders really help.

CO M B AT
Combat may happen at the end of a player’s Move action (after all units have moved but
before the player takes a bottom-row action). If that player’s character and/or mechs share
a territory with an opponent’s character and/or mechs, combat occurs. It’s possible for
this to happen on multiple territories; in that case, the active player (the attacker) chooses
the order in which these combats occur.
Combat happens only between the two players whose units share a territory, either of
whom can gain a star for winning the combat. Other players may try to influence the
combating players by bribing them with coins (see
Alliances and Bribes, page 26).
NO REQUIREMENTS: You may initiate combat even if you have 0

power and/or 0 popularity.
ATTACKER ADVANTAGE: If the attacking player has a mech ability
that impacts combat, they use that ability first, followed by
the defending player. Also, if combat results in a tie, the
attacking player wins.

SELECT POWER

22

Simultaneously and secretly select a number on your Power
Dial (align the number with the icon at the top right).
That is the amount of power you will spend, so you cannot
choose a number higher than the amount of power you
currently have on the Power Track. The track goes up to 16
but you can only spend up to 7 power on your Power Dial.
ADD COMBAT CARD(S) (OPTIONAL): By default, for each of your units

involved in the current combat (character and/or mechs),
you may tuck 1 combat card from your hand behind the
Power Dial. You may do this even if you select 0 power on
your Power Dial.
The number of combat cards you have in hand is public
information, but during combat you may conceal whether
or not you’ve used any of those cards. The combat deck
contains the following cards:

POWER

QUANTITY

2

16

3

12

4

8

5

6

POWER DIAL ASSEMBLY

Assemble your
power dial by
placing the
enclosed plastic
rivets through the
punched out holes.

DESIGNER’S NOTE: You might be surprised by how few combats happen in
a game of Scythe, especially given the universal presence of mechs in
Jakub’s art. However, if you look at all of the illustrations, you’ll notice
that very few of the mechs are actually fighting. In that way, Scythe is
just as much about the threat of combat as it is actual combat. If your
neighbor has built up a big pool of power and combat cards, you’re less
likely to attack them. Similarly, you might position workers on key
territories to dissuade more aggressive players from attacking you there
due to the loss of popularity if they win. It is this tension that exemplifies
the core theme of Scythe: the intersection of farming and war.

REVEAL

Both players reveal their Power Dials and selected combat cards simultaneously. The value provided by any combat cards
provides an additional bonus to the power you spend from the Power Track as indicated on your Power Dial.
The player with the highest total power wins the combat (ties go to the attacking player). Both players then pay the amount
of power they selected on their Power Dials, and they discard any combat cards they used face-up (you don’t adjust the
Power Track for combat cards—they’re just a temporary boost).
WINNER: The winner gains (or maintains) control of the

territory and all resource tokens on it. The winner also
places 1 star token in the combat space of the Triumph
Track (see Placing Stars, page 27) if they haven’t already
placed 2 stars for combat victories. If the winner was the
attacker, they lose 1 popularity for each worker they forced
to retreat by initiating and winning combat. Also, if there
was an encounter token on the territory and the winner has
a character there, they now perform the encounter.
LOSER: The loser must retreat all of their units—mechs,

characters, and workers—from the combat territory to
their home base (pick up those units and put them down on
their home base). All resources those units were carrying
remain on the territory and are now under the control of
the winner. If the loser revealed at least 1 power on the
dial or through combat cards, they gain 1 combat card as
they retreat.
LIMITED STARS AND GAME END: Each player can gain a maximum

of 2 stars for winning combat (with the exception of the
Saxon player, who can gain unlimited combat victory stars),
but they may still engage in future combats after they’ve
achieved those 2 stars. If your 6th star is placed but you still
have a combat remaining on your turn, the game ends and
any units you moved to initiate that combat will move back
to the territory from whence they came.
BATTLE IN A LAKE: Lake battles can happen between factions
like Polania and Nordic that have activated lake-related
mech abilities. If a mech transporting workers is attacked
while on a lake and the attacker wins combat, the attacking
player loses 1 popularity for each of those workers (they are
forced to retreat with the mech to their home base).

EXAMPLE: John takes a Move action, first moving
his character onto an unoccupied farm, then
moving a mech carrying 2 workers onto a
territory controlled by Sandra. Sandra has her
character, a mech, a worker, and 3 food tokens
on that territory.

John has 10 power and Sandra has 4 (this is
shown on the Power Track on the board). John
turns his dial to select 7 power. He has one
combat unit (the mech), so he can add 1 combat
card from his hand, but he chooses not to do so.
Sandra decides to spend 4 power on her Power
Dial. She has both her character and a mech on
the territory, so she can spend up to 2 combat
cards if she wants to. She chooses to just play a
3-power card and tucks it behind her Power Dial.
When they’ve both finalized their decisions, they
reveal their Power Dials at the same time. Sandra
groans—she tied John’s total power (7 to 7), but
attackers win ties!
So John takes over the territory and the 3 food,
and Sandra’s units retreat back to her home
base. John loses 1 popularity because, as the
attacker, he forced 1 worker to retreat. John also
places a combat victory star on the board.
Sandra’s only compensation is that she gets to
draw a combat card since she revealed at least 1
power on the dial or through combat cards.

STRATEGY TIP: Just because an opponent has a lot more power than you doesn’t necessarily mean they’ll

win in combat against you. They don’t know how much power you will spend or the amount of power
your combat cards will add (combat cards aren’t worth anything at the end of the game, so spend them
early and often). The puzzle of combat is outwitting your opponent, especially when they think they’re
going to win.

23

ENCO U NT ER S
As your character treks across Eastern Europa, they
will encounter a number of local people and situations.
Each encounter will present you with three options to
determine how you want to interact with the people. The
choice you make will often impact the peoples’ view of you,
represented in the game by your popularity.
When you move your character onto a territory with an
), their movement ends and
encounter token on it (
they cannot move again this turn. When your Move action
is completely over and you’ve resolved all combats (but
before you take a bottom-row action, if applicable), discard
the encounter token and draw an encounter card. Only
characters will trigger an encounter.
Show the art to the other players and read the thematic text (the text in all caps) out
loud. Then read through the various costs and benefits on the options and choose one (you
must choose one and pay the cost if applicable, though you may gain as much of the benefit
as you’d like). After you make your selection, discard the encounter card to the bottom of
the encounter deck face-down.
REQUIRED COST AND OPTIONAL BENEFIT: If you don’t have popularity or coins to pay for certain

24

options, those options aren’t available. You may gain as much of the benefit as you like
(e.g., if a benefit would give you 2 metal and 1 worker but you don’t want the worker, you
can just gain the 2 metal).
BENEFIT LOCATION: Any resources, structures, mechs, or workers you gain from the encounter

card go on the same territory as your character (i.e., where the encounter took place).
ISOLATED COST AND BENEFIT: If an encounter card instructs you to gain something or perform an

action, you do not pay any additional costs or gain additional benefits beyond those on the
encounter card, nor do you trigger any Recruit Ongoing Bonuses.
COMBAT: If a character moves onto a territory with an encounter token and an opponent’s

mech, thus initiating combat, the encounter only happens after the character wins combat.
Otherwise the encounter token remains on the territory.
NUMBER: The number in the upper left corner is just for referencing the card for questions

posted on places like BoardGameGeek.com or stonemaiergames.com.

DESIGNER’S NOTE: We made a specific design decision with the beautifully illustrated
encounter cards: Rather than tell the players what they’re seeing through a label or
flavor text, we’ll let you use your eyes to see the scene you’ve stumbled upon. There’s
often a lot happening in these scenes (it’s usually not just one specific thing that’s
happening), and the three options explain the various ways in which you can act.
Encounter cards are shown to all players when they’re drawn, so your gaming group
can integrate as much or as little of the story into the way they play Scythe as they like.
We’re giving you the same visual freedom you’d experience if you stumbled upon these
scenes in real life rather than restricting you to the limitations of flavor text–after all, a
picture is worth a thousand words.

T HE FA CT O R Y
The Factory is the centerpiece of the Scythe board. It is a place of technological innovation
and untapped power. Unlike most other territories, the Factory does not produce any
resources. At the end of the game, the Factory is worth a total of 3 territories (instead of
just 1) to the player who controls it.
When your Move action is completely finished (after winning combat if necessary), if your
character is on the Factory for the first time this game, look through the Factory cards on
the board. You must choose one card and return the rest to the board.
The first player to look at those cards will see cards equal to the number of players +1; each
subsequent player to visit the Factory with their character will see one fewer card. It’s good
to get there first.

FACTORY CARDS

Each Factory card is the equivalent of a fifth section of your Player Mat (place it next to
your Player Mat).
USING FACTORY ACTIONS: The Factory card is treated as any other section on your Player Mat. On

your turn, you may place your action token on the Factory card and take one or both actions
(starting with the top-row action if you choose to take both).
S EPARATE FROM PLAYER MAT BONUSES: Even if the Factory card action does something similar to
another action on your Player Mat, they’re completely independent of one another. So you
get neither Recruit Ongoing Bonuses, Structure bonuses, nor coins from similar actions
on your Player Mat.

25

MOVE: All Factory cards have a bottom-row Move action. It’s a little different than a standard

Move action, as it says, “Move one unit up to two times within the same Move action.”
C ONSISTENT WITH OTHER RULES: All other rules for movement still apply, especially those
that say that the entire Move action ends if your character moves onto a territory
with an encounter token or a character/mech moves onto a territory occupied by an
opponent’s unit(s).

M INE: If you have a Mine, you may move through the Mine with this Move action.
S PEED: If you’ve unlocked the Speed mech ability, one of your mechs or your character
may move up to 3 territories with this Move action.
ONE-CARD LIMIT: You may have at most one Factory card (the one you choose the first time your

character goes to the Factory).
PERMANENT SELECTION: Your selection is permanent—you may not switch your Factory card for
another card if your character ends a future Move action on the Factory.

STRATEGY TIP: Don’t underestimate the power of being able to move every turn. Without a

Factory card, you can only move once every other turn, but once you get that card, you
become much more nimble and responsive than players without that capability.

EXAMPLE: This Factory
card allows you to
pay 1 popularity to
Enlist a recruit OR
perform an Upgrade
(or skip the top-row
action). Then you
may Move any one
unit up to two times.

O B J ECT IVES
Each player starts the game with 2 objective cards that are kept secret from
the other players. You may reveal a completed objective card during your own
turn before or after you complete a top- or bottom-row action. If you do,
place 1 star token on the objective space of the Triumph Track and discard
the card along with your other objective to the bottom of the objective deck.
You can only achieve 1 objective star, unless you’re the Saxon player, who can
achieve up to 2 objective stars.
You may wait to reveal your completed objective if you wish, but you must
meet the entire objective requirements at the time you reveal it.

DESIGNER’S NOTE: It may seem a little odd that each player has 2 objective cards but
may only complete one of them. There are a few reasons for this. The first is that the
alternative would be to have each player draw 2 cards at the beginning of the game and
keep 1. However, I prefer not to ask players to make decisions before the game begins,
as it makes the game more welcoming to new players and gives experienced players
more freedom depending on how the game starts to play out. The second is that it
gives players the flexibility to change strategies mid-game. Maybe you were pursuing
one strategy, but that strategy didn’t end up working out. No problem—you still have
another objective card to use.

26

ALLIA NCES A ND B R IB ES
Players may make informal agreements (e.g., “I won’t attack you this turn if you don’t
attack me next turn”). The only tangible items that may be exchanged are coins. In
tournament play, coins may not be exchanged for deals or alliances.
You can’t negotiate your way out of a combat that has already begun—that is, if a player
moves their character and/or mechs onto a territory you control with your character and/
or mechs, at the end of their Move action, the two of you must engage in combat (you can’t
pay them off at that point, though you could try to influence the outcome). Agreements
made between players are not enforceable.

PL A CING STA R S
When you reach a pinnacle of empire building, your faction rewards you with a star. Stars
are worth coins at the end of the game.
Here are the ways to place stars, as shown on the Triumph Track:
Complete all 6 upgrades
Deploy all 4 mechs
Build all 4 structures
Enlist all 4 recruits

 ave all 8 workers on the
H
board
 eveal 1 completed
R
objective card

Win combat (up to 2 times)
Have 18 popularity
Have 16 power

When you achieve one of these goals, you must place a star on the appropriate space on the
Triumph Track. You cannot lose a star after you’ve placed it. For example, if you place a
star for reaching 18 popularity and you later drop below 18, the star remains on the track.
By default, each player may complete each of these goals exactly one time. Having a star on
a goal does not prevent other players from placing their stars on the same goal.

27

STRATEGY TIP: You can’t place more than 6 stars, so it’s

generally better to focus on completing 6 specific goals
than trying to do a little of everything.

GAME END A ND SCO R ING
The game immediately ends when a player places their 6th star token, even if they have other things they could do that
turn or other things would happen afterwards.

EDGE CASES

If the 6th star comes from taking a bottom-row action, gain
the primary benefit, the coins, and the Recruit Ongoing
Benefit before placing the star.
If you have units (character, mechs, or workers) remaining
on a territory with an opponent’s units (from a Move
action), you must undo that portion of your Move action,
returning the unit(s) to the territory they moved from.

DESIGNER’S NOTE: Scythe incentivizes players to end the game

if possible by making stars worth coins and denying
additional turns to opponents. This may result in some
opponents having one fewer overall turns than the player
who placed their final star.

If you place a star for total popularity or total power as
a recruit bonus on an opponent’s turn, that placement
happens after the opponent takes the action (e.g., build
a structure) in clockwise order and only if that opponent
didn’t place their 6th star by taking that action.

SAMPLE SCORING ROUND
28

The first time you play Scythe, we recommend that you run
a sample scoring round during the game so players have a
feel for the actual end-game scoring in advance. After any
player places their first star, pause the game to let players
calculate their current score. This is just for the sake of
example—this scoring does not actually happen until the
end of the game.

END-GAME SCORING

Accumulate your final fortune—coins you had before
the game end was triggered plus end-game coins—to
determine the winner. You should have a mound of coins
in front of you before announcing the total to the other
players.
To determine how many coins you earn for each of the three
scoring categories, look at your level on the Popularity
Track and pick up coins for that category (do this on your
own—there is no need for a “banker”).

EXAMPLE: If you have 10 popularity, you will earn
$4 for every star you placed, $3 for each territory
you control, and $2 for every 2 resource tokens
you control. If you have 18 popularity, you score
within the 13-17 popularity level.

VARIANT

DELAY OF GAME: Because of the various end-game scoring
categories and their connection to popularity, it’s
difficult for players to determine who is in the lead (this
is intentional). However, it is possible for a player to
interrupt the game to calculate the final score for each
player as they plan out their next few moves. That’s not fun
for anyone. The Delay of Game variant says that if a player
delays the game (while the game is being played, not during
end-game scoring) for more than 10 seconds by trying to
calculate the final score, they lose 2 popularity.

SCORING CATEGORIES

COINS IN HAND: The coins you accumulated during the game

count for end-game scoring.
EVERY STAR TOKEN PLACED: Gain coins for every star token you

placed during the game.
EVERY TERRITORY CONTROLLED: Gain coins for every territory you
control (including lakes). Home bases aren’t territories. You
control each territory where you have a worker, mech, or
character, or where you have a structure (but no enemy units).
	
F ACTORY: At the end of the game, the Factory is counted as

3 territories to the player who controls it.
EVERY 2 RESOURCES CONTROLLED: Gain coins for every 2 resource

tokens you control (e.g., if you control 13 resource tokens
and have 10 popularity, you’ll gain a total of 12 coins).
Workers are not resources. You control all resources on
territories where you have a character, worker, mech, or a
structure not occupied by an opponent’s unit.
STRUCTURE BONUS TILE: Gain coins based on the number of

structure bonuses you achieved. You gain this bonus even if
you don’t control the territories your structures are on.
29

DECLARING THE WINNER

Announce your coin total, and the player with the most
coins wins! If multiple players have the same total, use the
following as tiebreakers (in order):
1. Number of workers, mechs, and structures
2. Power
3. Popularity
4. N
 umber of resource tokens controlled
5. Number of territories controlled
6. Number of star tokens placed on board
ACHIEVEMENT SHEET: The winner of the game may write
their name up to 2 times on the achievement sheet to
memorialize their victory. This document commemorates
the first time any player wins under a certain condition
(e.g., the first victory with a specific faction).

CH A R A CT ER S
You are represented on the board by your character, who has been sent on a mission to make your faction’s claim to the
uncharted lands surrounding the defunct Factory. Each character unit is comprised of a person and their animal companion.
While each of the characters appears to be functionally the same as the others, their unique abilities are manifested in
their respective faction and mech abilities. A full backstory for each character can be found on the Stonemaier Games
website, but here is a short description of each one:
ANNA & WOJTEK (POLANIA REPUBLIC): An expert marksman and a helpful bear, Anna and Wojtek

traveled across the countryside during the Great War, becoming living legends as they
distinguished themselves in battle and showed compassion to even the poorest farmers.
With the Factory shut down and rumors swirling about a growing Rusviet force, Anna
and Wojtek have accepted a mission to ensure the unity and independence of Polania by
securing the eastern border and patrolling the lands surrounding the Factory.

GUNTER VON DUISBURG WITH NACHT & TAG (SAXONY EMPIRE): During the war, Gunter and his wolves

30

led elite mech squads across the forests and mountains of Saxony and Europa. His name
was both feared and respected, and his jacket grew heavy with medals of honor. Now that
the war is over, the Emperor has asked Gunter to embark on a new adventure to the east,
where he sees a fresh opportunity to expand the Saxony foothold on the unclaimed lands
surrounding the Factory. Tag is shown on several encounter cards, but she is not part of the
character miniature.
ZEHRA & KAR (CRIMEAN KHANATE): The firstborn daughter of the Khan of the Crimean Tartars,
Zehra is able to see through her eagle’s eyes, heightening her already formidable skill with
the bow. Though her father was loath to adopt the Factory’s advances, he realized that the
world was changing and he could not leave the Khanate exposed to its rivals. Reluctantly, he
has tasked his daughter with an expedition to the north for the purpose of acquiring more
modern technology and ensuring lasting peace for their people.

BJORN & MOX (NORDIC KINGDOM): Bjorn, the descendant of a renowned Viking family, was saved
from perishing in a blizzard by a kindly muskox. After surviving the ordeal, Bjorn took
the creature as his mount and named him Mox. Together they embarked on a series of
adventures across the land, serving as ambassadors to other tribes, executing military
operations, and seeking out new oil reserves. The King has now sent them southward to
add new villages and farms to the kingdom, either by diplomacy or by force, as well as to
explore the Factory with the hope of gaining a technological advantage for future wars.

OLGA ROMANOVA & CHANGA (RUSVIET UNION): When Olga’s first love, Viktor, went missing during
the Great War, she vowed to find him again. She joined the Rusviet military intelligence
service with Changa, her Siberian tiger, at her side. With her intelligence and ambition,
she has risen quickly through the ranks, and has used her newly-earned authority to
launch a full-blown invasion into the western lands—a desperate attempt to find her
beloved Viktor, with the full strength of the Rusviet military at her back!

HIGH L IG H T ED R U L ES
RESOURCES: All units—characters, mechs, & workers—can carry
around resources (any number).
TURNS AND PLAYER MATS: On your turn, you must choose a different

section of your Player Mat than you did the previous turn.
Take either the top-row action, the bottom-row action, or
both (starting with the top action). First pay the full cost of the
action (all icons on exposed red boxes), then gain the benefit
(exposed green boxes). If you select a bottom-row action,
the player to your left may start to take their turn while you
decide exactly which upgrade, mech, structure, or recruit you
will gain. Remember to take the coins from the bottom-row
actions!
MOVE ACTION: You must move different units (not the same unit

multiple times). You may choose only to use part of the
Move action if you only want to move one unit. A mech can
transport workers as part of its movement, then one of those
workers could also move.
PRODUCE ACTION: Produce on 2 different territories. Each worker

on those territories may produce 1 resource token. So if you
have 3 workers on a forest and 2 workers on a farm, a Produce
action generates 3 wood on the forest and 2 food on the farm.
WORKERS: Workers are not resources, but they are produced on

villages just like resources are produced on other terrains.
Just as with any Produce action, first pay the full cost on all
exposed red boxes on the Produce action, then Produce the
worker(s) by taking the meeple from your Player Mat (left
to right). You may choose not to produce a worker, as it can
increase the cost of future Produce actions. Once produced,
workers may never return to your Player Mat.
TRADE: When taking the Trade action, choose any 2 resource

tokens (either the same or different types) and place them on
a territory you control that contains a worker.
BOLSTER: Gain power on the Power Track or draw combat card(s).

If the combat card deck runs out, shuffle the discard pile to
form a new deck.
BOTTOM-ROW ACTIONS: You may continue to pay to take a bottom-row

action for the coin(s) even after you’ve achieved a star for the
action. This will continue to trigger Recruit Ongoing Bonuses.
UPGRADE: Pick up a technology cube from any green box on your

Player Mat and place it on any red bracketed box on your
Player Mat.
MECHS: Only mechs may carry around workers (any number of

workers)—not characters. Mech abilities apply to all mechs
and your character. Each faction has a slightly different
Riverwalk mech ability. If a mech has the Speed ability, it may
pick up and drop off workers/resources mid-movement.

RIVERWALK: Each faction has a slightly different version of the

Riverwalk ability, allowing them to move across rivers onto
two specific terrain types.
STRUCTURES: Only a single structure may be present on each
territory. Structures can’t be built on lakes.
RECRUITS: Gain a One-Time Recruit Bonus when taking the
Enlist action. From then on, gain a Recruit Ongoing Bonus
whenever you or the player to your left or right take the
bottom-row action corresponding to that bonus.
COMBAT: Only characters and mechs participate in combat

(moving a character or mech onto a territory containing
an opponent’s worker is not combat). Ties are won by the
attacker. If the loser of combat revealed any power during the
combat (either on the Power Dial or via combat cards), they
gain a combat card. Both the winner and loser must pay the
power they selected on the Power Dial.
RETREATING WORKERS (FORCED): You only lose popularity for forcing an
opponent’s worker to retreat on your turn. That is, if you
are attacked by a mech with workers on it and you win the
combat, you do not lose 1 popularity for forcing each of those
workers to retreat. On your turn, you may force opponent
workers to retreat even if you don’t have enough popularity.
ENCOUNTERS: Only characters may have encounters. To choose

an option on the encounter card, you must be able to pay the
cost (if any). All resources, units, or structures gained from
an encounter card go on the territory where the encounter
occurred. Benefits gained from encounters do not trigger
Recruit Ongoing Bonuses.
FACTORY: Only characters may claim Factory cards (1 per player).

Actions taken on Factory cards do not trigger Recruit Ongoing
Bonuses or Structure Bonuses.
OBJECTIVES: You may reveal a completed objective on your turn.

Discard the other objective card (unless you’re playing
Saxony).
STAR PLACEMENT: Once a player places a star on the Triumph Track,
it cannot be removed. Having a star on a goal does not prevent
other players from placing their stars on the same goal. If
a player places their 6th star, the game immediately ends.
Nothing else happens other than end-game scoring.
END-GAME SCORING: At the end of the game, remember to include

coins you earned during the game as part of your final coin
total. When scoring for territorial control, you control a
territory and all resources on it if you have a unit there or if
you have a structure there (unless an opponent has units on
that structure’s territory). Make sure to only score for every
two resource tokens you control, not every resource token.

31

WANT TO WATCH A HOW-TO-PLAY VIDEO?

Go to stonemaiergames.com/games/scythe/videos/

WANT THE RULES IN ANOTHER LANGUAGE?

Download rules and guides in dozens of languages at
stonemaiergames.com/games/scythe/rules-and-print-play/

HAVE A QUESTION WHILE PLAYING?

Tweet it to @stonemaiergames with the hashtag #scythe

NEED A REPLACEMENT PART?

Request it at stonemaiergames.com/replacement-parts

WANT TO STAY IN TOUCH?

Subscribe to monthly updates at stonemaiergames.com/e-newsletter

WANT A BIGGER BOARD?

Purchase the board extension to create a 50% bigger board at
stonemaier-games.myshopify.com

INTERESTED IN PROMO AND SPECIALTY ITEMS?

All promo items that came in the Kickstarter versions of Scythe are bundled into the items
in the box (i.e., the 6-card Factory promo pack is wrapped up with the other 12 Factory cards).
If you have the retail version of Scythe, you can buy promo and specialty items online
(stonemaier-games.myshopify.com/collections/all) and potentially at conventions or on the
BoardGameGeek.com store.

© 2015 Stonemaier LLC. Scythe is a trademark of Stonemaier LLC. All Rights Reserved.

