# Shadows Over Camelot -- Rulebook Text
# Source: https://ncdn0.daysofwonder.com/shadowsovercamelot/en/img/sc_rules_2015_en.pdf
# Extracted: 2026-03-05

                 Rulebook

     Players: 3-7
       Ages: 10+

Time: 60-90 minutes
   A n unladen swallow flies across the gray skies of Cornwall... The forces of evil
            are gathering around Camelot - The Black Knight was sighted atop a desolate
            ridge; a scheming Morgan plots her revenge; Saxon troops are on the move; and
   acres of timber are being felled for the Siege Engines. And yet Lancelot has all but
   vanished, Excalibur is still to be recovered, and the Holy Grail remains just a legend.
   These are troubling times indeed...

   Will you, young squire, come forth and pledge allegiance to your fellow Knights at the Round
   Table? Is your heart pure of intent and ready to sacrifice for the good of all? Or will the dark
   promise of power seduce you into treason?

   ; Preamble ;

     In most games, players compete against each other to achieve victory. Shadows over Camelot
   proposes a journey of a very different kind, where you and your fellow players, as Knights of
   the Round Table, will collaborate to jointly defeat... the game!

     At first glance, this task seems simple enough. After all, shouldn't a band of young and noble
   Knights - fleet of foot and sound of mind - easily defeat a game that plays itself? Alas your
   quest is further complicated by the ever-present possibility of a Traitor in your midst, biding his
   time, waiting to strike at the worst possible moment...

     But enough words... Don your cloak, climb astride your warhorse and gallop into the Shadows
   to join us in Camelot!

2  Bruno cathala

                 &

   Serge Laget

                 -- April 2005
       ; Components ;                                                                                                    Camelot's master game board

 1 Master gameboard of Camelot and the Round Table,                                                                            the Holy Grail Quest
  with its surrounding Quests                                                                                  Lancelot & the Dragon's Quest

 3 additional Double-sided Quests (the Holy Grail, Excalibur,
  and Lancelot & the Dragon)

 16 Swords of the Round Table (White on one side,
  Black on the other)

 168 Character, Event and Loyalty cards, including:

84 White cards    69 Standard  15 Special        8 Loyalty cards         Loyal Traitor

76 Black cards                 64 Standard                               12 Special

 7 Coat of Arms' (one per Knight)

 7 standard dice (one for each Knight)                                           7 Coats of Arms'  16 black & white swords     Excalibur's Quest

and 1 special 8-sided die for the Siege Engines                                                                                                        3

 A Rules Booklet and the Book of Quests

 A Days of Wonder Online access number,                                                                       7 regular dice   1 special 8-sided die
  located on the back of these Rules

 30 Miniatures, including:
   - 12 Siege Engines
   - Three Relics
   - Four Saxon and four Pict warriors
   - Seven Knights

12 Siege Engines               Lancelot's Armor          The Holy Grail              Excalibur                 4 Pict Warriors  4 Saxon Warriors

King Arthur       Sir Gawain                Sir Galahad                  Sir Kay                Sir Palamedes  Sir Percival     Sir Tristan
                ; Familiarizing yourself ;
                    with key components

   The game contains many different elements and components. We suggest you give the following brief
   explanations to your group as you set up the game, or review them for new players before starting:

   Cards

   There are three major categories of cards in Shadows over Camelot:    Back of a Loyalty card     a Loyal          The Traitor
                                                                                                    Knight
   The Loyalty cards, one for each of you at the start of the game,
   determine your allegiance: if Loyal - to Camelot and the Knights
   of the Round Table; if the Traitor - to the forces of Evil.

   The White cards, recognizable by their White back and border,         Back of a White card       a Standard a Special White
   represent a variety of "Good" events or characters which should help                               White
   you and your fellow Knights on your Quests. White cards come
   in two categories: Standard Whites, and the rarer, more powerful
   Special Whites which are recognizable by their special symbol.

   The Black cards, recognizable by their Black back and border,

   are invariably a bad omen for you and your fellow Knights (but

4  welcome news for a Traitor), as they usually help the spread of
   Evil forces through the Land. Black cards come in two categories:

   Standard Blacks, and the rarer, more dangerous Special Blacks

   which are recognizable by their special symbol.                       Back of a Black card       a Standard a Special Black
                                                                                                      Black

                                                                         Special White card symbol  Special Black card symbol

   Coats of Arms

   Your Coat of Arms is your character's reference sheet throughout the game. Initially displayed face up with
   your Knight's name visible, this is where you store your Life die, any Relics you may win, and where you
   tuck your Loyalty card at the game's start.

   Your Coat of Arms gives you a summary of the actions you may take, and spells out your unique Special
   Power. The latter is described in greater detail in Appendix 1 of the Book of Quests under your Knight's name.

   The opposite side of each Coat of Arms is for the Traitor to use once unmasked. It details the mechanics
   of his Evil intrigues for the rest of the game.

   KNIGHT SIDE               Name                   TRAITOR SIDE                                    When revealed
                          Special Power                                                             put your Knight
     Life die                                       The Traitor                                     figure here and
                           Description              is detailed in
     Victory              of the Relics'            Appendix 1                                        follow the
   conditions                                       of the Book                                      instructions
                             powers                  of Quests

                           Game turn
                            summary

                  Loyalty card
Quests

In Shadows over Camelot, the game's various boards (the Master gameboard and the three punch boards)
represent diverse locations where you may travel to in pursuit of Quests that will help you win the game.

These Quests all share some common traits:

 A name and a symbol, used to represent that Quest on various game elements and cards;

 An illustration of the countryside location where the Quest occurs, and in some cases, of
  the foes you will face there;

 Predesignated card spots, where a variety of Black or White cards must be played to advance
  the Quest;

 Predesignated Knight positions to indicate whether the Quest is open to all Knights or is a
  Solitary (Solo) Quest instead.

 Victory and Defeat pictograms, showing the spoils granted to the victors and punishment
  dealt to the vanquished.

                                         Defeat                      Victory    LANCELOT'S QUEST

Each Quest usually has one or more                                                Black cards'
Black cards or Evil actions attached to                                         designated spots
it, and one or more White cards that
can be played on it or Heroic Actions
that can be performed to advance it.

For a more in-depth description of the                                          White cards'                           5
Quests, and details of each specific
Quest's end conditions and conse-                                               designated spots
quences of Victory or Defeat, please
refer to the Book of Quests.                                                    Quest's Symbol

Relics                                           Knight(s) position

In Shadows over Camelot, several of the Quests yield powerful
Relics. Winning these will take you a long way on your arduous
path toward Victory.

These Relics, and the Quests they are linked to, are:

 Excalibur, the fabled sword in the Quest for Excalibur

 The Holy Grail of legend, in the Grail's Quest                     Excalibur  The Holy Grail    Lancelot's Armor

 And Lancelot's Armor in the Quest for Lancelot.

When you win one of these Quests, you immediately capture the corresponding Relic and proudly place
its miniature on your Coat of Arms. That Relic's power, as described on your Coat of Arms and in the
corresponding Quest, is now yours.

However, if the Quest is lost, the Relic disappears forever and is removed from play for the rest of the game.

Swords of the Round Table                                                                              SWORDS

The game's 16 Swords (black on one side, white on the other) are used                              When laid on the
throughout the game to track your group's progress toward Victory or Defeat.                      Round Table, these
When the game ends, the Swords' color (and quantity) will dictate whether                         Swords respectively
                                                                                                  mark the progress
   you have won or lost the game.                                                                 of the Knights/the

                                                                                                    forces of Evil.
                     ; Object of the game ;

In Shadows over Camelot, you and your friends form a coalition of Knights who have

pledged to defend the Kingdom against the forces of Evil. Your victory hinges on

the successful completion of legendary Quests, such as the search for Excalibur,                  9

the Holy Grail, or Lancelot's Armor; the tournament against the Black

Knight; and numerous wars against the Saxons and Picts.

                                                                                     5

Each Quest offers its own challenges, with spoils for the victorious   8
and terrible consequences for the defeated. A Quest's completion
often brings one or more new Swords to the Round Table.                               3           3
In victory, these Swords are laid White side up, in support
of the Knights. In defeat, they are laid Black side up,
displaying the ominous progress of Evil.

The game ends prematurely and is lost if the Loyal                                          2
Knights cannot prevent the forces of Evil from
doing any one of the following:

a. surrounding Camelot with 12 Siege
   Engines;

b. placing 7 or more Black Swords
   on the Round Table;

            c. killing all of the Loyal Knights;                       3

6

Otherwise, the game ends immediately after            2

the first Action in which a 12th Sword (or more)

is laid on the Round Table. At that point, the

game is won if the Loyal Knights have

succeeded in placing a majority of White Swords

on the Round Table.

If there is a Traitor, he wins if the forces of Evil  4

defeat the rest of the Knights.

; Setting up ;                                                                           4

the game                                                                                             4

Place the Master gameboard of Camelot and its surroundings

in the center of the table . Punch out the Quests for Excalibur,                   5
the Holy Grail, and Lancelot & the Dragon, and lay them next to

the Master gameboard as shown in . The Quest for Lancelot & the 9                              8

Dragon must be placed with Lancelot's side face up.

Now place the miniatures of Excalibur, the Holy Grail and Lancelot's Armor            We suggest you describe
                                                                                      game elements to your fe
on their respective spots on these Quests . Place the 12 Siege Engines, 4 Saxons,
4 Picts and 16 double-sided Swords in a Reserve, next to the gameboard .                                      the boa
   Randomly deal a Coat of Arms to each player. Everyone takes stock of their Knight and introduces himself

   and his Special Power to the group. Place your Coat of Arms face up next to you and lay a six-sided

          die, with the 4 (four) face visible, on the spot reserved for it . This die will be used throughout

                      the game to track your Knight's Life points.

      9                        Place your Knight's miniature on its designated seat at the Round Table ,
            5
                                  where it will start the game.

                               Separate the cards into three piles (White, Black and Loyalty).

                                  Shuffle the Black cards into a draw pile, and place them on

8                                 the designated spot in Camelot .

                               10

                                                   From the White cards, give one Merlin card to each
                                                     player, then shuffle the remaining White cards,

                                     including any remaining Merlin cards. Deal 5

                                                       White cards to each player and place the remaining

                                                        White cards in a draw pile on the designated

                                                spot in Camelot .

                               4

                                     If you are 3 players, please see "Three Brave

                                     Knights" page 19 before proceeding further.

                                  8  Shuffle all 8 Loyalty cards, and randomly give                            7
                                     one to each player. Secretly peek at your

   1  8                              Loyalty card to discover your allegiance (to

                                     the Round Table if Loyal, to the forces of Evil

                                     if the Traitor), before sliding your Loyalty card

                               5     face-down under your Coat of Arms . Any

                                     unused Loyalty cards are put face-down in the

                                  9  game's box, unseen.

   7                                         QHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHQ

                            6                      Important Note
                            8
                                             Throughout the game, all the cards played, be they
          5
    9                                     Black or White, must always be discarded face down.

                                        To distinguish the Discard piles from the Draw piles, the

                                    Draw piles are always on the board in Camelot ( & ),
                                  while the Discard piles sit outside Camelot, off the board .

                               QHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHQ

e the role of the various
 ellow players as you set
ard up.
             ; Beginning the game ;

   At the start of the game, in a gesture of the collaboration to come, each player must select one White card
   from his hand and place it, face up, on the Round Table. A discussion should ensue about how to best
   share those cards among all the Knights.

   A Knight, in a noble gesture, may voluntarily take none of the shared cards, while others may pick up
   several. If there is disagreement (not a good omen of things to come!), the offered cards are shuffled and
   redistributed randomly to each player.
   You are now ready to begin.

   ; Recommendations for first-time play ;

   This game is different, really different! You will at once be playing the game, yet involuntarily helping it
   defeat you. While the game's mechanics are quite simple, their implications and the potential repercussions
   of your acts will be anything but.

   As a result, unless your group of players is made up of seasoned veterans who have all thoroughly familiarized

   themselves with these rules and appendices beforehand, we suggest you play your first game without a

   potential Traitor in your midst. It will lower the tension and fun that can stem from a good bit of back-

   stabbing, but ensure that everyone gets a chance to master

   the game.

   To do so, simply remove the Traitor from the mix of Loyalty  k A word on k
                                                                collaborating
8  cards before dealing those out, and use each Loyalty card

   face up, solely as a reminder of the game's Victory          A t times throughout the game, victory will hinge on
                                                                   your group's ability to make the right choices or
   conditions.

   This should allow you to rapidly master the game's           sacrifices for the common good. The cards you are dealt,
   mechanics and familiarize yourselves with the unique         and your unique Special Power, may occasionally dictate
   Special Power of each Knight, and with the Quests and        your choice of Quest or course of action. Collaboration
   obstacles you are likely to face.                            with other like-minded Knights in your group will often
                                                                turn out to be crucial to winning.

                                                                A few rules must thus be observed at all times, when

   If the rules seem a bit daunting at first, do not worry: All conferring with your fellow Knights.

   you need to get started is to familiarize yourselves with    Declarations of intent ("I heard those <blasphemous> Saxons
   the game's key components during set-up, and get a firm      are on the march again, I will put them down!") can be made
   grasp of the basic game turn structure as outlined on your   freely; resources ("My Men-at-arms are strong and ready,
   Coat of Arms and in these rules.                             my Lord") and capabilities ("What a laughably puny Black
                                                                Knight I see across this bridge!") can all be discussed openly,

                                                                                  as long as your comments are general and nonspecific.
   Equipped with that knowledge, you can then start the However, you must never reveal or discuss the explicit

   game and discover the rest as you play, referring to the Book values of cards in your hand, or volunteer any other specific

   of Quests when entering a new Quest and to the Cards         game information not readily available to your fellow
   Manifest if an occasional question arises.                   players. For example, you should never say "I have 3 Grails,
                                                                let me have this one" or "I'll trade your three Fight 2 cards

   Once you have a game under your belt, add the Traitor        for my Fight 5".
   card back into the mix of Loyalty cards at the start of the  Being grown men of valor, you should act of your own free
   game and enjoy! But remember: Someone in your valiant        will and conscience. Regardless of your brethren's advice,
   group might now be secretly working against the rest...      wishes or threats, you may always embark on the course
                                                                of action of your choice. It is permissible to lie about your

   and he is as intimately familiar with the game's subtleties intent or your resources at hand (a particularly useful ploy
                                                                for a Traitor), though you must never cheat.
   as you are!
                ; Game turn ;

First player

As befits a monarch, King Arthur begins the game. If he is not in play, the Knight played by the youngest
player starts.

Order of the turn

Play proceeds clockwise in successive turns until:
The game is lost prematurely;
Or
A 12th Sword is laid on the Round Table, at which point the color of the majority of Swords laid there
determines victory or defeat.

The two Phases

The Game Turn is divided in two phases, each separated by a verification check as to whether the game
ends or not.

   In the first phase, The Progression of Evil phase, you must make one of three unappealing choices,
     all favoring the Evil forces.

   In the second phase, The Heroic Actions phase, you try to help your cause by performing one
     (or occasionally more) of five Heroic Actions.

                                                                                                            99

                  Game Turn Overview

          On your turn, you must perform two steps:
           PROGRESSION OF EVIL. You must choose one of the following three actions:

               - Draw a Black card from the black draw pile, read it and apply its effect (Drawing a
               Black card p 10);
               - Add a Siege Engine around Camelot (p 11);
               - Or Lose a Life point (p 12).

                         Check if the End of Game conditions have been reached before proceeding to Step 2.
           HEROIC ACTIONS. You must now perform one of five possible Heroic Actions

           (you may occasionally perform more - see Sacrifice and Special Powers p 16-17):
               - Move to a new Quest; (Moving p 12)
               - Perform an action related to the Quest you are on; (p 13-15)
               - Play a Special White Card; (p 16)
               - Heal yourself (p 16);
               - Or Accuse another Knight (p 16).
                After your Heroic Action(s), check if the End of Game conditions (p 17) have been reached.
                                                                           If not, the game moves on to the next player.

During your Progression of Evil and Heroic Actions phases, you are welcome to discuss any of your choices
 with the group, as long as you respect the rules laid out in A Word on Collaborating (p 8). However,

    you always have final say over your decisions.
      1. Progression of Evil

      At the beginning of each turn, you are faced with selecting one of three unappealing choices, all designed
      to help the forces of Evil in their campaign against you. Deciding which is the lesser of these evils will
      depend on the current game circumstances, but you must choose from one of the following: drawing a Black
      card; adding a Siege Engine around Camelot; or losing a Life point.

      a. Drawing a Black card

      If you choose to draw a Black card, pick the top card on          If you are playing as SIR PERCIVAL, your
      the Black draw pile, read it aloud, and apply its effect.            Special Power allows you to peek at the Black
      If necessary, refer to the Cards Manifest in Appendix             card on top of the Black draw pile and put it
      2 of the Book of Quests for more details on how to play           back in place before deciding whether to choose
      the card.                                                         a different Evil action instead.

      Note that Black Knight, Lancelot and Dragon cards maybe played face down if you choose. In this case,
      their value should not be read aloud to the other players.

      If the Black draw pile runs out as a result of your draw, reshuffle all the discarded Black cards into a fresh
      new Black draw pile, and simultaneously reshuffle the White discard pile and White draw pile into a fresh
      new White draw pile.

      Throughout the game, each time a Draw pile runs out, you will have to reshuffle both piles, even if the
      other one has not yet been depleted.

      Special Blacks

1100  If the Black card you draw is a Special Black card :                       Special Black card symbol

      Dark Forest  Desolation  Guinevere                Mist of Avalon  Mordred  Morgans (x5)               Vivien

      Read it aloud and apply its effects immediately.

      If you desire, you and/or some of your fellow Knights can decide to immediately cancel the card's effects
      by collectively playing 3 Merlin cards.

      Beware: this collective use of Merlin cards to prevent a          QHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHQ
      Special Black from coming into play can never be applied
      retroactively. e.g. if you draw Vivien or the Dark Forest                Important Note
      and do not have 3 Merlin cards it goes into play and stays
      effective until the game ends, even if you later get 3 Merlin        Throughout the game, discard all cards
      in your hands.                                                       face down, regardless of their color or
                                                                           who played it. Cards played on the board
      All cards played - including the 3 Merlin cards, if played           are usually placed face up, unless indicated
      - are then discarded onto their respective discard pile,             otherwise.
      face down.
                                                                        QHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHQ
  Standard Blacks

If the Black card you draw is a Standard Black card:

Black Knight  Despair      Excalibur Lancelot & Dragon Mercenaries                        Picts  Saxon

Play it face up on its corresponding Quest, as indicated by the Quest symbol on the card.

Unlike Special Blacks, a Standard Black card cannot be countered by the use of 3 Merlin cards when it
comes into play.

The effect of a Mercenaries card is applied, at your choice, on either
the Pict or Saxon War.

The Lancelot & the Dragon cards are always placed on whichever

of these Quests is currently in play (Lancelot first, followed by the

Dragon, once Lancelot's Quest is complete).                               On Lancelot's

If the Black card you draw is a Combat card with a numerical value        Quest consider
on it (Lancelot & the Dragon, or the Black Knight), you may choose         the Lancelot

to play it face down on the board to hide its numerical value from            value.

the rest of the group. This will likely raise a few suspicious eyebrows;                                        1111

but it also lets you immediately pick a free White card from the

draw pile into your hand.

If the Quest for a given Black card is no longer in play (once played,     On Dragon
the Quests for Excalibur, the Holy Grail, and Lancelot & the Dragon,      Quest consider
are all turned over or removed), a Siege Engine is immediately
added to Camelot in lieu of the card being played. The card is then        the Dragon
discarded onto the discard pile. Do not play a card on the board itself,      value.
where the graphic is just a reminder of the card's effect.

If the Black card you draw is:
      A Black Knight, Lancelot or Dragon card that fills the last empty spot on the Evil side of at Quest;
      An Excalibur card that moves Excalibur to the last position on the Evil side of the river;
      A Despair or Desolation card that causes the entire Grail Quest to now be filled with Black cards;
      Or a Pict, Saxon or Mercenary card that puts a 4th Pict or Saxon figure on the battlefield;
     the Quest you play the card on immediately ends. Check in the Book of Quests whether the Quest
     was won or lost, and apply the corresponding Victory or Defeat consequences, as indicated by the Quest's
     Victory and Defeat pictograms.

b. Adding a Siege Engine around Camelot

Take a Siege Engine from the Reserve and place it on one of the empty Siege Engine
spots surrounding Camelot.
 If this is the 12th Siege Engine placed around Camelot, the game is immediately lost for all but the Traitor!
    c. Losing a Life point

    You may always sacrifice your own stamina to keep the forces of Evil at bay. To do so, simply lose one life
    point and turn your Life point die so that it shows its next lowest value face up.

    Your Life points can never go below zero or above six (any Life point gain above 6 is immediately forfeited).

    If your Life points fall to zero (as a result of this voluntary sacrifice, or at any other point during the game, regardless
    of the reason for it), you die and disappear from the game at the end of your game turn. If you possessed Excalibur
    or Lancelot's Armor, they are now forever lost and removed from the game. All your White cards are immediately
    discarded face down onto the White discard pile, and your miniature removed from the board.

                    Your only hope: If the Holy Grail was won earlier in the game and its owner lets you drink from
                    it, you survive your fall to zero Life points, but only once! (If you are the Grail's owner, you can
                    use its magical power on yourself). When drinking from the Holy Grail, set your Life points back
                    to 4 and remove the Holy Grail from the game.

    The Holy Grail

    Important Note: Even dead, you must not reveal your Loyalty until the end of the game. Even if you fall
    in battle, you will get a chance to enjoy a victory (posthumously, of course!) if your side ultimately wins.

    2. Heroic Actions

12  If you survive your Progression of Evil phase, you must then undertake one of five Heroic Actions.
    To help your fellow Knights, you must either:

     Move on to a new Quest; p 12

     Perform a Quest-specific action; p 13-15

     Play a Special White card; p 16

     Heal yourself; p 16

     Or, when permitted, make an Accusation.

    Remember that in this phase, you must take one Action. So if you are on a Quest and are unable to perform
    the Action (s) linked to that specific Quest, you have to play a Special White card, heal yourself, or make
    an Accusation. If you cannot do any of the above, you must move, regardless of how much you might
    have wanted to stay on this Quest!

    a. Moving to a new Quest

    The lands surrounding Camelot are dark and foreboding. Traveling to a new destination is often a great
    deed in itself, and thus requires a Heroic Action.

    To travel, simply grab your Knight's miniature and move it to any destination Quest of your choice.
    The distance between your Quest of origin and the destination, and the relative position of these Quests
    on the map is irrelevant. Each move always requires a single Heroic Action.

    The one exception is Camelot, which has two locales (the Siege area outside the walls, and the Round
    Table inside) between which you can freely move without expending a Heroic Action.
A few of the Quests (the Black Knight, Lancelot) are            If you play SIR TRISTAN, and were in Camelot
Solo Quests. Only one Knight may be on each Solo                   during your previous turn, your Special
Quest at any given time. Thus you may only move to              Power lets you move from the Round Table to
a Solo Quest if it is presently unoccupied.                     any other Quest for free, leaving you with
                                                                another valuable Heroic Action to perform.

b. Performing a Quest-specific Action

Each Quest has one or more specific Heroic Actions attached to it. These Quest-specific Actions usually
help advance the Quest toward a successful conclusion. You may only perform a Quest-specific Action if
your Knight is currently on that Quest.

If, as the result of a Heroic Action, a Quest's End Conditions are met:
      All Knights on the Quest just ended are moved back (at no cost) to the Round Table in Camelot;
      The Quest's Victory or Defeat consequences - as indicated by the Quest's pictograms and in the Quest's
       entry in the Book of Quests - are applied at once;
      And all cards played on the Quest are discarded into their respective discard pile. Saxon and Pict
       figures, if any, are put back in reserve.

The Heroic Actions specific to each Quest are:

Camelot

Camelot has a specific Heroic Action attached to each of its two           Siege Area                               13
sections, the Round Table and the Siege area outside the fortress' walls.

When in Camelot, you may choose to perform a Heroic Action to:

- Draw 2 White cards;

   - Or Fight a Siege Engine.                                                                      Round Table

Drawing 2 White cards                                    QHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHQ
There are no limits to the number of White cards you
may have in your possession at any time during the               Important Note
game. But, if you have 12 or more White cards in hand,
you cannot choose to draw any more additional White         Remember, if at any point during the course
cards as your Heroic Action.                                of the game the White draw pile runs out,
                                                            reshuffle all discarded White cards into a
Fighting a Siege Engine                                     fresh new draw pile, and simultaneously
To fight a Siege Engine, first select and play as many      reshuffle the Black discard and draw piles,
                                                            together into a fresh new Black draw pile.

Fight cards as desired from your hand onto the table. QHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHQ

Then roll the 8-sided die:

- If the sum of the White Fight cards you played                If you are playing SIR GAWAIN, your Special
is greater than the value displayed on the die, you win            Power lets you collect 3 White Cards in
the fight; Move the Siege Engine off the board and              Camelot, rather than 2. You are still subject to
back into Reserve and discard any cards played.                 the above-stated limit of 12 White cards in hand.

- If the sum of your White Fight cards is lower than or equal to the value of the die you rolled, remove 1
Life point from your total by turning your Life dice down to its next lower value. If this brings you to zero, you
die (see Losing a Life point, above). The Siege Engine remains in place and you must discard any cards played.
    The Black Knight, Lancelot & the Dragon's Quests

    The Tournament against the Black Knight, the Quest for Lancelot's Armor and
    the Dragon's Quest are Combat Quests.

    When on a Combat Quest, you may, as your Heroic Action of choice, play a                   BLACK KNIGHT
    single Fight card on any empty card spot on the Knights'side.

    The cards you play must eventually form a specific combination (2 pairs of
    distinct values in the Black Knight's Tournament, a full house in the Quest for
    Lancelot, and 3 three-of-a-kinds in the Dragon's Quest), so your choice of Fight
    cards may be limited, or may constrain future cards played here.

    A Combat Quest ends the moment its last White (or Black, if in the Progression
    of Evil phase) empty spot is filled. The sum of all White cards played on the
    Quest is compared to the sum of the Black cards played there.

    To protect the identities of both the innocent and a potential Traitor, all the Black      LANCELOT
    cards that were played on the Quest must be shuffled together before revealing
    them to compute their sum.

    If the White Fight cards have the greater total value, the Quest is won; otherwise
    it is lost.

    The Quest ends with a 5th Black card

14                                                                     The 5 Black cards,      DRAGON

                                                                       including 4 placed

                                                                       face down are:

                                                                       3 + 1 + 1 + 5 + 1 = 11

                                                                       The Knight played
                                                                         3 cards so far
                                                                         for a total of:

                                                                       1 x 4 + 2 x 5 = 14

                                                                       Knight wins: 14 vs. 11

        The Quest for Excalibur                                                                Discard one White card
                                                                                                face down to move
    To win Excalibur, you must progressively move Excalibur to your
    side of the river.                                                                         Excalibur closer to you

    To move Excalibur one spot closer to your side, you may, as your
    Heroic Action of choice, discard any one White card face down
    from your hand onto the White discard pile.

    Once Excalibur reaches the last spot on your side of the river,
    the Quest is won, its victory spoils granted. Excalibur is placed
    on the Coat of Arms of the Knight who completes the Quest.
    The Quest for the Holy Grail

To win the Holy Grail, you must cover every single spot on this Quest with a Grail card.
To progress in your search for the Holy Grail, you may, as your Heroic Action of choice, play a single
Grail card on the first empty spot closest to the Holy Grail miniature.

If all card spots are filled, remove the closest Despair (or possibly Desolation) card instead, and discard both
cards.

If you lay the 7th Grail card on the last spot on the board, the Quest is won, its victory spoils granted, and
the Holy Grail goes on your Coat of Arms.

The Saxon and Pict Wars

To win one of the Saxon or Pict Wars you must complete a "straight" series of

Fight cards with values from 1 to 5, before the Forces of Evil are able to place                                  15

four Saxon or Pict figures in that war.

To fight the Saxons or Picts, you may, as your Heroic Action, play a single
Fight card on the first available card spot in that War.

If there are no cards yet in play on that War, you must play a 1 as the first Fight
card on this Quest. The value of each succeeding Fight card played must be
exactly 1 point higher than the last card played, so that cards laid on the Quest
form a "straight" of increasing values from 1 to 5.

                                         End of the
                                           Quest

Playing the fifth and final Fight card in a War wins that Quest. If four Saxon or Pict figures are placed on
the battlefield before you play the fifth card, the Quest is lost.
    c. Playing a Special White card                                                Special White card symbol

    Special White cards are easily identifiable by their Special White symbol.

    Convocation   Fate  Heroism Lady of the Lake Messenger    Piety Reinforcements Clairvoyance  Merlin

    To play a Special White card, read its text aloud and apply its effect immediately, then discard the card onto
    the White discard pile.

    You may never play more than one Special White            I f you play SIR GALAHAD, you may use your
    card per turn.                                               Special Power to play this Action for free.
                                                              In this case, you must pick another Heroic Action
                                                              to play as your normal Action.

    d. Healing yourself

    To Heal yourself and gain one Life point, simply discard three identical cards (e.g. 3 Grail cards, or 3 Fight

    cards of the same value) and turn your dice over to the next value up. You may heal yourself above your

    initial 4 Life points, but never above 6.                 QHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHQ

    e. Making an Accusation                                          Important Notes

    Accuse a fellow Knight of being a Traitor to force him  This Action only becomes available once
                                                              there are at least 6 Siege Engines around
16  to immediately reveal his Loyalty card to all of you.     Camelot or at least 6 Swords of any color

    You do not need to be in the same location as the Knight  on the Round Table.

    you accuse of this treachery.                              Each Knight may choose this Action only
                                                              once during the entire game.

    If you are the Traitor, you may choose to falsely accuse QHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHQ

    a Knight of being the Traitor for the sole purpose of sowing confusion (and turning a Black Sword over to

    your cause).

    If the Knight you accused turns out to be Loyal, turn a White Sword (if any) over to its Black side on the
    Round Table. If there is no White Sword on the Round Table yet, the (wrong) accusation has no effect.

    If the Knight you accuse is the Traitor, add a new White Sword to the Round Table. The Traitor is now
    unmasked and must follow the instructions on the back of his Coat of Arms. See The Traitor in Appendix
    1 of the Book of Quests for more details.

    Additional Heroic Actions: Sacrifice                      QHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHQ

    Once per turn, you may decide to exert yourself beyond            Important Note
    reason, sacrificing one of your Life points in exchange
    for a second Heroic Action. Immediately reduce your          You may never perform the same Heroic
    Life points by 1, and perform this second Action.            Action twice in the same turn; the second
                                                                 Action must always be a different one.

                                                              QHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHQ

                 For instance, you could move to join the Quest for Excalibur using your first Heroic Action, then sacrifice
                 a Life point to discard a White card and move Excalibur one space closer toward your side.
  If such a sacrifice brings you down to zero Life points, you can find the inner resources required to perform
this one final Action, but you will die immediately thereafter, regardless of this Action's outcome (i.e. even
if this Action wins a Quest which would give you a new Life point). Only the Holy Grail could save you
from certain death provided it had been won in an earlier Quest!

Additional Heroic Actions: The Knights, Special Powers

With the exception of Percival and Kay, all other Knights may only use their Special Power during their
respective Heroic Action phase. Percival uses his during his Progression of Evil Phase, and Kay may use
his out of turn, as soon as a Quest ends.

You may use your Special Power before or after your Heroic Action. If you choose to perform two Heroic
Actions, you may even use your Special Power in between them.

The rule forbidding the same Heroic Action from                 The only exception is SIR KAY, who may play an
being performed twice during the same turn remains                additional Fight card when he finishes a Fight
in effect.                                                      against Lancelot, the Dragon, the Black Knight or

                                                                a Siege Engine, after having had a chance to see

If, for instance, as Sir Galahad, you use your Special          the value of the Black cards he's fighting against.

Power to play a free Special White card, you cannot

opt to play a second Special White card as your mandatory Heroic Action during the same turn.

Ties                                                                                                                 17

All ties in the game, including:

 Fights against Siege Engines;

 Fights against the Black Knight;

 Fights in Lancelot's and the Dragon's Quests;

 And ties between White and Black swords on the Round Table at the Game's end;

are always resolved in favor of the forces of Evil and the Traitor. A stalemate is never good enough for the
Knights!

                ; Game end ;

The Game ends immediately with a loss for all the Loyal Knights if there are:
         a. 12 Siege Engines surrounding Camelot;
         b. 7 or more Black Swords on the Round Table;
         c. or all the Loyal Knights (Traitor excepted) are dead;

In addition, the game stops immediately after the first         QHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHQ
Action in which a 12th Sword is laid on the Round Table.
                                                                        Important Note
If the Traitor is still alive and undetected at this point, he
reveals his Loyalty card, and two White Swords on the              If several Swords are laid at once during the
                                                                   game's final Action, the game may end
     Round Table are now turned over to their Black side.          with more than twelve Swords on the
                                                                   Round Table.

                                                                QHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHQ
    The Black and White Swords on the Round Table are then tallied up separately. If the number of White
    Swords laid is strictly greater than the number of Black ones, the loyal Knights win the game. Otherwise,
    the forces of Evil win, along with their treacherous friend, if any.

    Any Knight (including the Traitor) who dies during the game is considered to win a posthumous victory
    if the side he had pledged allegiance to wins the game.

         ; Advanced and optional rules ;

    Joining in Mid-Game

    If a player wishes to join a game in mid-play, he simply draws one of the remaining Coat of Arms and
    Loyalty cards, and sits to the immediate left of King Arthur (or the player who started the game, if King
    Arthur is not in play). He then sets his Life dice to 4, draws 5 White cards from the top of the White draw
    pile, places his miniature in Camelot and waits for his turn to arrive.

    If a player wishes to leave a game, he is considered to have immediately met a premature death. (see Losing
    a Life point p. 12)

18  Expert Rules

    After a few victories, the bravest among you may want to experiment with any of the following variants:

    The Squire,s Challenge

    Any veteran player looking for a bigger challenge may opt to start the game as a simple squire, with no
    Coat of Arms or Special Power, equipped solely with his Life dice - set to 4 as usual - and a starting hand
    of 5 White cards and a single Merlin.

    When a Quest is won, one (and only one) of the Squires present on it will earn his Knighthood. The players
    can decide which among them becomes a Knight. If no agreement can be reached, the Squire whose action
    won the Quest is the one who is made Knight. He then becomes a full-fledged Knight, receiving a Coat
    of Arms and the Special Power that goes with it.

    Once you truly master this challenge, consider having your Squire start the game with 3 Life points and
    fewer white cards in hand.

    The Traitor Among Us

    Instead of dealing Loyalty cards from the 8 available, take only as many Loyal cards as there are players
    around the table, add the Traitor card, shuffle and distribute. This makes the game quite a bit harder; While
    there are no guarantees there is a Traitor in your midst, the probability of one increases dramatically,
    especially for smaller numbers of players.
   Three Brave Knights

When the Knights are few, the challenge becomes increasingly greater for the chivalrous amongst you.
With only 3 players at the table, we strongly recommend you heed the Recommendations for first-time
play on page 8 of this rulebook and initially attempt the Quests without a potential Traitor in your midst.

Only once you have become confident in your skills should you consider adding the potential Traitor back
into the mix. The Traitor won't appear that frequently amongst your small group (only 3 chances out of 8)
but, when he does, his presence will turn out to be devastatingly effective.

As such, any player dealt the Traitor card must place special emphasis on playing his role not only by the
rules, but also in the spirit of the game. In Shadows over Camelot, the Traitor's challenge is to defeat the
Loyal Knights through deception and deviousness, not to simply crush his opponents by openly flaunting
his true nature through an obvious string of overt, evil moves.

To encourage and facilitate this type of play, in a three-player game, the players should not look at their
Loyalty cards when they are distributed at the beginning of the game; instead, the players should wait until
at least 6 Swords have been laid on the Round Table before taking a peek at their Loyalty card.

Suspicion will now begin to cast its long shadow on Camelot, while the challenges for the Loyal Knights remain
significant, regardless of whether one their own was suddenly seduced by the promises of the evil side.

                                                                                                           19
    Days of Wonder Online

    Register your boardgame  Here is your Days of Wonder Online
                             access number - discover the online
                             board game community where ALL

                                      your friends play!

                                      Register your game at
                                  www.shadowsovercamelot.com
                             to receive online discounts and discover
                                 a web site full of game variants,
                             discussions of effective game strategies
                             and more. Simply click on the New Player
                                button and follow the instructions.

    WWW.DAYSOFWONDER.COM

20  ; Credits ;

           Game design

    Bruno Cathala & Serge Laget

    Illustrations

     Julien Delval

    Graphic Design

      Cyrille Daujean

       We wish to thank the merry minstrels from Etourvy-en-Chaource, world capital of games
       and cheese, the gallivanting gents and dames of Burgundy and Dauphiny, and everyone
       at Days of Wonder for their contributions. Their patience and allegiance was (almost...!)
       never in doubt.

    Days of Wonder, the Days of Wonder logo and Shadows over Camelot - the boardgame are all trademarks or registered trademarks
                      of Days of Wonder, Inc. and copyright  2005-2015 Days of Wonder, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

                                                                                                                                                     7202-P07
