# Viscounts of the West Kingdom -- Rulebook Text
# Source: https://cdn.1j1ju.com/medias/48/31/fb-viscounts-of-the-west-kingdom-rulebook.pdf
# Extracted: 2026-03-05

game design - shem phillips & s j macdonald
   illustration - mihajlo dimitrievski

 graphic design & layouts - shem phillips
     copyright 2020 garphill games
          www.garphill.com
introduction

Viscounts of the West Kingdom is set at a time when the King's reign began to decline, circa 980 AD. Choosing
peace over prosperity, our once strong King began offering our enemies gold and land to lay down their axes. But
peace is a tenuous affair. As poverty spread, many people lost faith in his ability to lead and sought independence
from the crown. Since finding favour in his courts, our future has also become uncertain. As viscounts, we must be
wise and decisive. Loyalty is to be upheld, but gaining favour among the people must be our priority, should there
be a sudden shift in power.

aim of the game

The aim of Viscounts of the West Kingdom is to be the player with the most victory points (VP) at game's end.
Points are gained by constructing buildings, writing manuscripts, working in the castle and acquiring deeds for
new land. Players begin with a handful of townsfolk, but should quickly seek out more suitable talents to advance
their endeavours. Each turn they will be travelling around the kingdom, looking to increase their influence among
the various areas of society. The game ends once the Kingdom reaches poverty or prosperity - or potentially both!

components

        4 Corruption  80 Workers                  12 Guildhalls
        Markers       (20 in each player colour)  (3 in each player colour)
        4 Virtue
        Markers                4 Viscounts        12 Trading Posts
                               (1 in each         (3 in each player colour)
        50 Silver              player colour)
                                                  12 Workshops
2                                                 (3 in each player colour)
components

72 Resources in 3 types:  1 Castle
         24 Ink Wells     For the first game, punch
         24 Gold          out the cardboard pieces
                          and place them in the
                          positions pictured here.

24 Stone

35 Manuscripts            1 Start Player
                             Marker

                              4 Player Boards

                                                     5 Main Board Segments  3
components

   68 Neutral          10 Hero            32 Starting           4 Cleric
Townsfolk Cards    Townsfolk Cards     Townsfolk Cards        Bonus Cards
                    (Brown Titles)  (Player-coloured Titles)
 (Black Titles)

        1 Castle   1 Poverty Card   1 Prosperity Card         10 Player Cards
      Leader Card

4
                                                                        4 Multiplier Cards

8 Starting Scheme Cards     8 Future Scheme Cards  1 AI Reference Card  All the following
   (Brown Headers)             (Black Headers)        For Solo Play     items are considered
     For Solo Play              For Solo Play                           to be unlimited:
                                                                        Debts, Deeds, Ink
                                                                        Wells, Stone, Gold
                                                                        and Silver. Players
                                                                        should use the
                                                                        Multiplier Cards
                                                                        if any of the above
                                                                        items run out.

                                                                        =  10 Silver and
                                                                           5 Gold

      30 Debt Cards                30 Deed Cards
Front = Unpaid (unflipped)  Front = Acquired (unflipped)
                             Back = Approved (flipped)
  Back = Paid (flipped)

                                                                                            5
setup

Follow these steps to set up Viscounts of the West Kingdom:

1. Turn the 5 Main Board Segments faceup to the correct side, depending on the
  number of players in the game (see the numbers printed on the inside
  edge of each Main Board Segment). Mix up the Segments and place
  them in a random order (ignore the numbers in red for now), so
  that the inside edges form a circle.

2. Place the Castle in the middle of the Main Board, so that it
  clicks into place, locking all the Segments together. The
  orientation of the Castle should be random.

3. Shuffle all the Neutral Townsfolk Cards and separate them
  into 5 roughly-equal piles. Place 1 pile faceup onto each
  of the indicated spaces of the Main Board.

4. Find the 5 grey-backed Manuscripts (the rest are black).
  Place these facedown on the table, forming 5 piles. Mix
  up all the black-backed Manuscripts and place 6 facedown
  on top of each pile. There should now be 7 in each pile.
  Place 1 pile faceup onto each of the indicated spaces of the
  Main Board (all the grey-backed Manuscripts should now be
  visible on the top of each pile).

   Note: While both Townsfolk Cards and Manuscripts remain

   in faceup piles, players are not permitted to look through them.

   If some players have issues with this, they can create the piles so that

   they are facedown, with only the top-most card/tile faceup. However,

6  this will require more upkeep from players throughout the game.
5. Place all Silver, Ink Wells, Gold, Stone and Multiplier Cards in a Main Supply near the Main Board. Also place
   the 4 Cleric Bonus Cards and Castle Leader Card nearby.

6. Give each player 1 Player Board (with the side shown below, faceup) and the following components in their
  chosen player colour:

                                           3 Trading Posts 3 Guildhalls 3 Workshops

20 Workers                                                                           1 Viscount

1 Corruption                                                                         1 Virtue
     Marker                                                                          Marker

   8 Starting
Townsfolk Cards

                           Starting Icons, available only on players' first 2 turns

7. Randomly decide on a start player and give them the Start Player Marker. This will remain with them

for the rest of the game.                                                                                     7
setup

8. Shuffle the Player Cards and lay out a number of cards
  in a line, equal to the number of players in the game,
  plus 1. Then shuffle the Hero Townsfolk Cards and place
  1 below each of the Player Cards, forming pairs of cards
  (1 Hero Townsfolk Card for each Player Card). This
  image shows how it might look for a game with 3 players.

9. In reverse turn order (starting with the player to the right
  of the Start Player Marker and moving counter-clockwise
  around the table), each player selects 1 pair of cards and
  follows these steps:

  - Place their Viscount on the matching numbered space of the Main Board (based on the number at the top of
   their chosen Player Card).
  - Gain all resources, Silver, Debts and Deeds, as listed on their Player Card.
  - Take any additional steps indicated at the bottom of their Player Card (flipping Deeds, gaining Virtue, etc).
   Note: Player Cards 3, 5 and 6 can use their effects on any Segment. Player Card 8 must be used on the same
   space as that player's Viscount. Player Card 9 can be used to Destroy any of their cards before shuffling.
  - Flip over their Player Card and place it alongside the top left side of their Player Board as a reference.
  - Shuffle their Hero Townsfolk Card with their 8 Starting Townsfolk Cards and any other Neutral Townsfolk
    Cards gained during Setup, to form a facedown Draw Pile to the left of their Player Board. Players should
    each draw a starting hand of 3 cards from the top of their Draw Piles.

10. On top of the Poverty Card, place a number of Debt Cards (unpaid-side faceup), based on the player count (see
   the reference on the Poverty Card). Place all remaining Debt Cards below the Poverty Card. On top of the
   Prosperity Card, place a number of Deed Cards (acquired-side faceup), based on the player count (see the
   reference on the Prosperity Card). Place all remaining Deed Cards below the Prosperity Card.

Note that the number of Debts and
Deeds are not always equal at
different player counts.

8
debts and deeds

Before we dive too far into the gameplay, it may help to talk about Debts and Deeds first. As mentioned during
Setup, Debts are stacked above and below the Poverty Card, while Deeds are stacked above and below the
Prosperity Card. Throughout the game, players will be gaining Debts and Deeds. These are always taken from the
tops of these 2 piles.

The game's end is triggered once either the Poverty Card or Prosperity Card are revealed. Whenever the Poverty
or Prosperity Cards are revealed, turn them over and place them alongside the Debts and Deeds piles. This way
players can continue to draw from these piles if required. Both Debts and Deeds are considered to be unlimited. In
the rare case that they run out, players should use the Multiplier Cards to accommodate.

Throughout the game, players will also have the chance to flip both Debts and Deeds:

= Flip a Debt = Flip a Deed = Flip a Debt or a Deed

At the game's end, unpaid Debts, will cause players to lose 2 VP. When flipping a Debt (from unpaid to paid),
players immediately gain any 1 resource. At the game's end, acquired Deeds will gain players 1 VP. However, if
players manage to flip their Deeds (from acquired to approved), they will instead gain 3 VP.

If the Poverty or Prosperity Cards are revealed, the players who flipped the most cards (of the indicated type) will

also gain additional points. This causes a seesaw effect - as the Debt pile starts to run out, players become aware

that the players with the most flipped Deeds will score more points from the Poverty Card. Therefore, players

might aim towards gaining more Deeds, which will then push the game closer towards the Prosperity

Card being revealed. This will be covered in more detail in the Scoring section of this rulebook.                    9
virtue, corruption & criminals

Another key concept to understand is how Virtue
and Corruption impact the game. Players will be
gaining both through various actions and effects.
Gaining Virtue and Corruption is also the most
common way to advance towards gaining Debts
and Deeds.

Any time players gain Corruption , they must move their Corruption Marker 1 space to the right on their Player
Board. Likewise, any time players gain Virtue , they must move their Virtue Marker 1 space to the left on their
Player Board. If they cannot move either token (because they have already reached the opposite end), then any
additional movements are ignored. If players ever gain both Corruption and Virtue at the same time, they must
resolve the Corruption movement first.

Once Corruption and Virtue Makers collide, they remain stuck together, and will continue to move together.

For example, this player just gained 2 Virtue. Their first Virtue would move their Virtue Marker on top of their
Corruption Marker. Their second Virtue would move both Markers 1 space to the left.

How Corruption and Virtue collisions are resolved will be explained in detail later. But for now, this
page should help make the next few pages make a little more sense when reading for the first time.

    Criminals are wilds! This won't make too much sense when reading this for the
    first time, but we will elaborate more throughout the rules. Just note that when
    taking primary actions, each Criminal Icon can count as any other single Icon.
    However, they do not count as other Icons for other purposes (scoring
    Manuscripts, for example).

10
townsfolk card layout        Immediate effect   See the back of this rulebook for
                             when first hired   details on what each icon means.
   Silver value for hiring,  or dismissed
dismissing and movement                            This indicates either a cost, action,
                             Timing of          requirement, or event on its left side
                     Icons   card ability       and reward or some other effect on its
                                                right side. For example this Traveller
                    Name                        allows players to treat each pair of
              Card ability                      Merchant Icons as a Cleric Icon,
                                                while on their Player Board.

gameplay overview

Viscounts of the West Kingdom is played over an undetermined series of Rounds. Each Round consists of each
player taking 1 turn (beginning with the player with the Start Player Marker), followed by the player on their left
(clockwise around the table), and so on. All Victory Points will be calculated at the game's end.

Players will be moving through a number of phases on each turn, with the main objective being to move their
Viscount clockwise around the Main Board to take 1 of 4 primary actions and potentially hire new Townsfolk. The
phases that players take each turn are laid out from left-to-right across their Player Boards:

1. Card Management           3. Primary Action  5. Resolve Collision

2. Movement                                     4. Recruit 6. Draw Cards

                                                                         11
player turns

Phase 1: Card Management
During this phase, players will be managing a shifting line of Townsfolk Cards on
their Player Boards. These cards will provide players with Icons, useful for taking the
4 primary actions. When a card is first added to the line, it also determines a player's
movement for that turn. All cards have either an immediate , ongoing or
drop-off effect.

During this phase, players must follow these steps:

  1. Move all Townsfolk Cards currently on their Player Board, 1 space to the right. If this
     causes a card to drop off the right side of their Player Board, it should be placed faceup into
     their discard pile on the right. If this card has a drop-off effect, it must be resolved now.
    For example, this Journeyman rewards the current player with a Free Hire and 1 Virtue
    when dropping off their Player Board.

  2. Place 1 Townsfolk Card from their hand into the left-most space of their Player Board. If
     this was a Criminal , that player immediately gains 1 Corruption for each Criminal icon
     on their Player Board. Also, if this card had an immediate effect, it must be resolved now.
    For example, this Antagonist would cause the current player to gain 2 Corruption when
    played, plus 1 more Corruption for each other Criminal Icon on their Player Board. In
    addition to that, this card would also cause them to immediately gain 1 Debt Card.

It is possible for players to have only 3 cards. They are never allowed to have fewer than 3. On a turn with 3 cards,
the right card would drop off, then be "shuffled" to form a new Draw Pile, before being placed into the left space
of the Player Board.

If a player starts their turn with no cards in hand, they must blindly play the top card from their Draw Pile, to their
Player Board.

12
Phase 2: Movement
During this phase, players will be moving their Viscount clockwise around the Main Board. The
distance they must move is equal to the Silver value at the top-left of the Townsfolk Card they just
played. Players can never move fewer spaces than this amount, but may pay Silver to move further
(1 Silver per additional space).

  If a Viscount ever finishes their movement on the same space as an opposing Viscount,
  that opposing player may immediately rearrange the Townsfolk Cards on their own Player
  Board. Players are reminded of this on their Player Cards.

When moving, players must follow the arrows leaving their

current space. They can never move backwards. However,

it is possible to do a complete loop of the Main Board,

finishing right back where they started. This would

cost a lot of Silver though.                               1     3

For example, from this space, the Red

Player could choose to move their Viscount

along the outside path (to 1), or down to the

inside path (to 2). From (1), they can only

move along the outside path to the next                       2  4
Segment of the Main Board (3). From (2),
they can either move up to the outside path

(1), or along the inside path to the next

Segment of the Main Board (4).

Therefore, with a movement value of 2 (from playing
their Abbot), the Red player could move to either of
the left spaces on the next Segment of the Main Board
(3 or 4), or move to the inside path (2), then back to the
outside (1), essentially only moving 1 space from their
original position.

                                                                           13
player turns

Phase 3: Primary Action
During this phase, players will take just 1 of the 4 possible
primary actions. Regardless of which action they take, players
will be using a combination of Icons on their Player Boards
(excluding discard piles), spending resources, or using Icons
on a dismissed Townsfolk, to help fund their chosen action.

The 4 primary actions are:

    Trade                   Construct                           Place                     Transcribe a
                            a Building                          Workers                   Manuscript

      As part of their primary action, players may dismiss the faceup Townsfolk Card
      adjacent to their Viscount to gain more Icons. However, players can only do this
      if the Townsfolk Card has Icons matching the primary action they are taking
(note that Criminal Icons are wilds). The cost to dismiss a Townsfolk Card is the Silver
value at the top-left of the card. Players can only ever dismiss 1 Townsfolk Card each
turn. When dismissing Townsfolk, players must pay the required Silver, then remove
the card entirely from the game. They temporarily gain all Icons printed down the left-
side of that Townsfolk Card for their primary action and also gain the immediate effects
printed on the top-right of the card. Any abilities at the bottom of dismissed Townsfolk
Cards have no effect.

For example, this Woodcutter would cost 2 Silver to dismiss and immediately rewards
1 Virtue. The current player would also gain 1 additional Builder Icon for their primary
action.

14
Trade can only be done on the outside path of the Main Board. To fund this action, players may count
Merchant Icons and Criminal Icons on their Player Board, spend Silver (1 per extra Merchant Icon)
or spend Silver to dismiss the Townsfolk Card adjacent to their Viscount.

What they gain in return is dependent on the location of their Viscount. Each space along the outside path has an
exchange associated with it. Players may use this exchange as many times as they wish, so long as they can afford
it. The possible exchanges are:

  Gain 1 Silver per Merchant Icon. Note that spending Silver to fund this action has no additional
  gain. However, it may still be useful to spend Silver to dismiss Townsfolk for additional Merchant
  Icons, or to make use of their dismiss abilities (top-right of each Townsfolk Card).

                           Gain 1 Ink Well, 1 Gold or 1 Stone, per 2 Merchant Icons. A single Merchant
                           Icon gains nothing.

  Destroy 1 Townsfolk Card per 3 Merchant Icons. Destroying cards helps to refine a player's

  deck. Any time players destroy cards, they are removed from the game entirely. Players gain

  Silver from the supply, equal to the Silver value printed on the cards being destroyed. When

destroying cards, players may either do so from their hand, or blindly from the top of their Draw Pile. Destroying

cards is always optional.

                           Flip 1 Debt or 1 Deed per 4 Merchant Icons. When flipping
                           multiple cards, players may do so in any combination.

For example, the Red Player just took a Trade action
to gain Gold. They first counted all their Merchant
Icons (4) on their Player Board. They then decided to
spend 2 Silver to make up a total of 6 Merchant Icons,
gaining a total of 3 Gold. Their Trader also earned
them 1 Silver after taking this action, due to their
ongoing ability.

                                                                                                        15
player turns

       Constructing a Building can only be done on the outside path of the Main Board. To fund this action,
       players may count Builder Icons and Criminal Icons on their Player Board, spend Stone (1 per
       extra Builder Icon) or spend Silver to dismiss the Townsfolk Card adjacent to their Viscount.

When constructing a Building, there must be an available (empty) Building Spot at the location of the current
player's Viscount. Note that on each Segment of the Main Board, a River divides the various Building Spots. Only
the Building Spots on the left of the River are accessible from the left space, while only the ones on the right are
accessible from the right space.

If there is an available Building Spot, a player can then decide which Building they wish to construct. Players can
choose any 1 of the 9 available Buildings on their Player Board. The costs of these are shown along the top of
Player Boards. If players have constructed all their Buildings, they can no longer take this action.

    3  5 Workshops require          7 Trading Posts require  Guildhalls require
                                                             7 Builder Icons.
       3 Builder Icons.             5 Builder Icons.

5     4   9 15  Players will score VPs for constructed Buildings, as indicated along the top of
                Player Boards. The more of a certain type they build, the more points they gain.

 For example, players will score 4, 9 or 15 VP for 1, 2 or 3 Trading Posts.

After deciding which Building to construct, players must fund the action (as mentioned above). They then
place the Building from their Player Board, onto the chosen Building Spot. When doing so, the current player
immediately gains the effect shown on the chosen Building Spot. Also, if the Building they place Links to a
previously constructed Building, both players on either end of that Link, gain the printed effect along that line. If
however, the current player has Buildings on both ends of the Link, they only gain the effect once.

                             River  Building Spot
       Link

16
For example, the Red Player has chosen to construct 1 of their
Workshops, which requires 3 Builder Icons. They have none on their
Player Board, so decide to spend 2 Stone, plus 1 Silver to dismiss the
Mason adjacent to their Viscount, giving them the 3 Builder Icons they
require.

First, they must resolve the immediate Rearrange effect provided from
dismissing the Mason, if they wish to take advantage of it. Then they decide
where to place their Workshop. In this case, there is only 1 possibility, as all
other Building Spots are on the other side of the River. When placing their
Workshop, they immediately gain 1 Ink Well from that Building Spot. They
also completed a Link to the Blue Player's Trading Post. This immediately
rewards both players with 2 Silver from the supply.

Once placed onto the Main Board, each Building reveals an ongoing ability for the rest of the game. These are
each positioned above the phase in which they are relevant.

The first Trading Post gives players the option to move 1 additional space for free when moving their Viscount,
if they desire. The second Trading Post makes all Townsfolk cost only 1 Silver to dismiss. The third Trading
Post and all 3 Guildhalls give players permanent Icons on their Player Boards. The first Workshop gives players
a Discard ability each time they hire a Townsfolk (by any means). The second Workshop rewards players with
1 Virtue if they have no Criminals on their Player Board during collisions (explained later). The third Workshop
increases players' hand limits by 1 card.

                                                                           17
player turns

    Placing Workers can only be done on the inside path of the Main Board. To fund this action, players may
    count Noble Icons and Criminal Icons on their Player Board, spend Gold (1 per extra Noble Icon)
    or spend Silver to dismiss the Townsfolk Card adjacent to their Viscount.

When placing Workers, players may use either 1, 3, 5 or 8 Noble Icons, to place           1 358
1, 2, 3 or 4 Workers. There is a reminder of this in the top-left area of Player Boards.
When placing Workers as a primary action, they are always placed into the first tier
of the Castle, adjacent to the current player's Viscount. Players must have at least 1
Worker in their supply to take this action.

After placing their Workers, the current player must check            First Tier
to see if they now have 3 or more of their own Workers in the       Second Tier
first tier of Castle section where they just placed their Workers.
If they do, the following takes place:

- Move 1 of their Workers from that section of the Castle,          Third Tier

inwards from the first tier, to the second tier.

- Immediately resolve the effect printed on the second tier of the Castle

where they moved their Worker to.

- Move 1 Worker from the same first tier section of the Castle clockwise around

the Castle to the adjacent section. Also move 1 Worker in counter-clockwise

direction in the same fashion.

In the example above, the transparent Red Workers show where the 3 Workers were placed. The opaque Red
Workers show where they would move to. Doing this would have given the current player an immediate effect of
either a Free Hire, or Destroy.

After resolving any Castle movement, the current player must check to see if they now have 3 or more Workers in
another first-tier section. This can happen due to Workers moving around the first tiers. They would then resolve
this tier in the same fashion as the previous.

    If players have more than 1 tier with 3 or more Workers present, they can resolve them in any order.

18  Note that all effects from moving Workers inwards must be resolved immediately.
After resolving all first tier movements, the current player must then look to the second tier. Again, if there are 3 or
more of their Workers present in a section, they must move 1 Worker inwards to the third tier, immediately gaining
any 1 resource (as printed on the Castle). However, unlike the first tier, Workers never move clockwise or counter-
clockwise around the second tier. This allows players to create quick paths towards the third tier, by keeping 2
Workers stationed in a particular section of the second tier.

Once the current player has finished all their Castle movements, they must then check to see if there are more
than 3 Workers (regardless of colour) in any of the first or second tier sections. If there are, they must bump off
a number of Workers, until only 3 remain from that section. The current player decides which Workers will be
bumped off. They can even choose their own Workers.

Workers bumped off the Castle are always returned to their owner's supply. That player
also gains an immediate reward. When bumped off the first tier, players gain 2 Silver.
When bumped off the second tier, players gain 1 Virtue and any 1 resource of their
choice. Workers can never be bumped off the third tier. Players are reminded of this on
their Player Cards. The Player Card also reminds players of how Workers score at the end
of the game. Each Worker in the Castle scores VPs equal to the tier which they are on.

The Castle Leader Card is immediately awarded to the first player to move a Worker into the
third tier of the Castle. This card should be kept alongside the current leader's Player Board.
However, should another player ever have more Workers in the third tier than the current
leader, they take the Castle Leader Card from the previous leader and place it alongside their
Player Board. Whoever holds the Castle Leader Card at the game's end will score an
additional 5 VP. Also, when drawing cards in phase 6 of each turn, the player holding this card
has an increased hand limit of 1. Note that if the leader loses this card, they do no need to
discard down to their new hand limit. They simply just apply their new hand limit next time
they need to draw cards.

Note: It is possible for players to have 3 of their Workers on a section of the Castle when it is not their turn (such
as from a Building Link, or some other immediate effect). In this case, the current player would resolve their
movement first, followed by the opposing player. Once this is fully resolved, the current player continues
their turn.

                                                                           19
player turns

For example, the Red Player is taking a Noble action to place Workers in the Castle. They have 5 Noble Icons on
their Player Board (1 from their Thief, 1 from their Overseer, 1 from their Guildhall and 2 from their Benefactor's
ability). They also decide to spend 3 Gold, making a total of 8 Noble Icons. Therefore, they place 4 Workers into
the first tier of the Castle, adjacent to their Viscount.

After placing 4 Workers, they have a total of 5 in that section of the Castle, on the first tier. They move 1 Worker
inwards, gaining 1 Ink Well and 1 Stone. They then move 1 Worker clockwise and 1 counter-clockwise. This
results in them having 3 Workers on the lower-left section of the Castle's first tier. They move 1 Worker inwards,
gaining 2 Virtue. As before, they move 1 Worker either direction around the first tier of the Castle. This results
with them again having 3 Workers in the section adjacent to their Viscount. They repeat the process again as
before, gaining another 1 Ink Well and 1 Stone. Now that they have done all their movements for the first tier,
they focus on the second tier.

They have a total of 4 Workers in the second tier of the top-left section (the Ink Well/Stone section). They move 1
Worker into the third tier gaining any 1 resource of the choice. Then, since they still have 3 Workers in the second
tier, they move another Worker into the third tier, gaining another resource of their choice. This also gives them
the most Workers in the third tier of the Castle, taking the Castle Leader Card from the Blue Player.

Now that all their movements are done, they check to see if any sections of the Castle have more than 3 Workers.
There are 5 Workers in the top-right section. They decide to bump off both Blue Workers. The Blue Player returns
them to their supply, and gains 2 Silver for each from the supply. Lastly, the Red Player resolves the effect of their
Overseer Card. They decide to discard 1 card from their hand, to their discard pile.

20
       Transcribing Manuscripts can only be done on the inside path of the Main Board. To fund this action,
       players may count Cleric Icons and Criminal Icons on their Player Board, spend Ink Wells (1 per
       extra Cleric Icon) or spend Silver to dismiss the Townsfolk Card adjacent to their Viscount.

To transcribe a Manuscript, players require a certain number of Cleric Icons, as shown on the Manuscript adjacent
to their Viscount. Once they have fulfilled this requirement (with Icons, Ink Wells or a dismissed Townsfolk Card),
they add the Manuscript alongside their Player Board. If it had an immediate effect , they must resolve that now.
Players may only transcribe 1 Manuscript each turn.

The first player to transcribe 3 Manuscripts of the same ribbon colour, immediately collects the corresponding
Cleric Bonus Card and adds it alongside their Player Board. These are each worth 3 VP at the game's end.

Players score VPs as printed on certain Manuscripts, in addition to VPs for their
sets of different-coloured ribbons. Players may have multiple sets.
For example, a set of Manuscripts with 3 different ribbons would score 9 VP.

If a pile of Manuscripts on the Main Board runs out, do not attempt to refill it. There are pre-printed Manuscripts
on the Main Board. They cannot be collected, but players can still transcribe them to use their immediate effects.

For example, the Red Player wants to transcribe the Manuscript seen here with the grey ribbon.
This will require 6 Cleric Icons. They have 1 from their Acolyte and another from their Cleric
Bonus Card. They decide to spend 3 Ink Wells and also 1 Silver to dismiss the Racketeer
(which also gains them an immediate Shuffle). They take the new Manuscript
and add it alongside their Player Board. This will score 1 VP per Building they
have constructed, plus additional VPs if part of a larger set.

                                                                           21
player turns

Phase 4: Recruit
After finishing their primary action, players may hire the faceup Townsfolk Card currently sitting
adjacent to their Viscount on the Main Board. The cost to hire a Townsfolk Card is the Silver value at
the top-left of the card. Players can only ever hire 1 Townsfolk Card during this phase. When hiring
Townsfolk, players must pay the required Silver, then place the card into their discard pile. They must
also immediately resolve the effects printed on the top-right of the card. If a pile of Townsfolk Cards on the Main
Board runs out, do not attempt to refill it. There are pre-printed cards on the Main Board. They cannot be hired,
but players can still use their immediate effects when dismissing Townsfolk.

Phase 5: Resolve Collision
If at this point (and only at this point), the current player's Virtue and Corruption Markers are on the
same space of their Player Board, they must resolve the effects now. There are a number of effects, and
players must resolve them in the following order:

1. All players that have constructed their second Workshop, with no Criminals on their Player Boards gain 1 Virtue
2. All Townsfolk Cards on Player Boards that have effects during collisions are resolved.
3. The current player gains the items printed directly above where their Virtue and Corruption Markers sit.
4. All opposing players gain the items printed directly below where the current Player's Markers sit, if applicable.

Once all the above effects have been resolved, the current player
resets their Corruption and Virtue Markers to the far ends of their
Player Board.

For example, the Red Player needs to resolve their collision. Despite
constructing their second Workshop, they have a Criminal on their
Player Board and therefore, do not gain 1 Virtue. Their Peddler gains
them 1 Ink Well. The position of their Corruption and Virtue Markers
gains them 2 Debts and 3 Silver. All other players with no Criminals
on their Player Boards would gain 1 Virtue. Finally, the Red Player
resets their Corruption and Virtue Markers.

22
Phase 6: Draw Cards
During this phase, players draw cards from their Draw Pile until they have reached their hand limit, or
have no cards left in their Draw Pile (or discard pile) to draw from. This limit starts at 3, but can be
increased throughout the game. It is possible for players to already be at their hand limit, or to even
exceed their hand limit at this point. In this case, they simply do not draw any new cards.

  If players ever need to draw cards (at any point of the game) and their Draw Pile

  is empty, they must shuffle their discards to form a new Draw Pile. At this point,

  they need to check their Player Board for Criminals. If they have 1 or more

Criminal Icons, they gain 1 Corruption (never more than 1). If they have no Criminal Icons, they gain 1 Virtue.

Players are reminded of this on their Player Cards. Note that it is possible for Corruption and Virtue Markers to

collide when shuffling. But keep in mind that this won't be resolved until that player reaches phase 5 on their turn

(this would be on their next turn, if already in phase 6 when shuffling.).

As soon as the current player has drawn cards to refill their hand, the next player in clockwise order starts their
turn, beginning in phase 1 and moving through to phase 6, followed by the next player, and so on.

end of the game

The end of the game is triggered once either the Poverty Card or Prosperity Card is revealed (see page 9). At this
point, the current Round is finished, then 1 final Round takes place, so that all players have had the same number
of turns. In other words, the player sitting to the right of the player holding the Start Player Marker will always
have the last turn.

Note that it is possible for both Poverty and Prosperity Cards to be revealed. This is called the Divided Kingdom,
meaning that both cards will be active during final scoring.

Note: All Townsfolk Cards on Player Boards with ongoing effects , do not have any effect during final scoring.

                                                                          23
end-game scoring

Once the game has ended, players should add up their score for the following areas:

    Constructed Buildings
    As printed across the tops of Player Boards.

    Workers in the Castle
    VPs for each Worker, equal to the tier in the Castle.

    Transcribed Manuscripts
    VPs for sets of different ribbon colours and from specific Manuscripts.

    Castle Leader Card and Cleric Bonus Cards
    VPs as printed on each card.

    Unpaid Debts  Acquired Deeds                           Approved Deeds
    -2 VP each    1 VP each                                3 VP each

Poverty Card (if revealed)
The players with the most, second-most and third-most flipped Deeds gain 12, 8
 and 4 VP. Note that players must have at least 1 flipped Deed to qualify. In the case
 of a tie, players split the VPs between each level as equally as possible.

For example, if 2 players were tied for first place, they would score 10 VP each
 ((12 + 8) / 2). The player in third place would still score 4 VP. Likewise, if 3
 players were tied for second place, they would score 4 VP each ((8 + 4) / 3).

Prosperity Card (if revealed)
This works the same way as the Poverty Card, but for flipped Debts, instead of
flipped Deeds.

In games with less than 3 players, the middle (8 VP) reward is ignored on Poverty and Prosperity Cards.

24  The player with the highest total score is the winner. In the case of a tie, the tied player with the most
    remaining Silver and Resources is the winner. If still tied, all tied players share the victory.
scoring example

The Red Player would score a total of 109 VP for the following:
26 VP from their constructed Buildings (4 + 13 + 9).
19 VP from their Workers in the Castle.
44 VP from their Manuscripts (26 from their 3 sets, 6 from

      constructed Buildings, 5 from Noble Icons, 4 from
      Criminal Icons and 3 from Flipped Debts).
5 VP for having the Castle Leader Card.
3 VP from their Cleric Bonus Card
-2 VP from unpaid Debts
4 VP from acquired Deeds.
6 VP from approved Deeds.
4 VP, assuming only the Poverty Card was revealed,
      and they had the third-most flipped Deeds.

                                                                          25
solo play rules: setup

Setup for you remains mostly the same. To set up the AI player, follow these steps:

1. Choose 1 of the Player Boards and flip it over to the AI Player Board side. The top-left of AI Player Boards give
  you an idea on what they will focus on strategically (placing Workers, constructing Buildings, etc). We will use
  the Cleric AI for this example.

2. As with the regular Player Board, place the 9 Buildings onto the AI Player Board (notice that the positions
  of Trading Posts and Guildhalls are reversed). Give the AI opponent their 20 Workers, Virtue and Corruption
  Markers, Viscount and AI Reference Card. They do not require the Townsfolk Cards.

3. Give yourself the Start Player Marker.

4. Separate the Starting Schemes (Brown Headers) from the Future Schemes (Black Headers). Check the left card
  space of the AI Player Board to see which Scheme Cards need to be removed. Return those to the box. Shuffle
  the Starting Schemes and place them in a facedown pile to the left of the AI Player Board. Shuffle the Future
  Schemes and place them somewhere off to the side of the AI Player's Board, so not to confuse the Future
  Scheme Draw Pile with the main Scheme Draw Pile.

5. During Step 8 of the standard Setup rules,
  reveal 1 less pair of Player Cards and
  Hero Townsfolk Cards (2 pairs for a
  standard solo game). You choose first,
  then place the AI's Viscount on the
  indicated space on the Main Board, of
  the unselected Player Card. You can
  then return that Player Card and Hero
  Townsfolk Card to the box.

26
6. Give the AI all their starting items, as listed on the left card space of their Player Board.
  For example, the Cleric AI starts with 1 Ink Well, 1 Stone, 1 Deed, 1 Debt and 1 Guildhall at the same location
  as their Viscount (also gaining the immediate effect from placing it).

solo play rules: general rules

For the most part, the solo game plays very much like the standard game. Your turns function exactly the same. On
your opponent's turn, you will be turning over a single Scheme Card from their Draw Pile and resolving a number
of effects. This will simulate the feeling of facing off against a real opponent.

There are a few general rules to follow when making decisions for the AI opponent. Most of these are printed as a
reminder on the AI Reference Card:

The AI Viscount only ever moves clockwise around the outside path of the Main Board. They do not use
the inside path.

  Both the AI and yourself will give their opponent a Rearrange ability when landing on the
  same space as their Viscount. As the AI Reference Card indicates, this gives the AI a
  resource of their choice.

  When gaining a resource of their choice, most AI opponents will follow the chart
  on their Player Board (area with the green background). Only the Card-focused AI
  treats all resources as a single type.

For example, the Cleric AI prioritizes collecting Ink Wells. If they already have 6 or more, they will instead collect
Stone. If they already have 4 or more Stone, they will collect Gold.

                                27
solo play rules: general rules

    The AI Reference Card indicates what the AI will do when resolving certain effects:

    Column 1: Any time they gain a Rearrange effect or 2 Silver, they instead gain 1 resource of
    their choice.

    Column 2: Any time they gain a Destroy effect, or their Future Scheme Draw Pile is empty
    when they need to gain a card, they gain a Card Flip.

    Column 3: Any time they gain a Card Flip, but have no cards to flip, they gain 1 Virtue.
    They also gain 1 Virtue when told to Discard or gain a free Castle Move.

    When given the choice of which card to flip (Debt or Deed), the AI will first attempt to
    flip that which they have flipped the least of. If they are tied, they will flip a Debt. If they
    only have 1 type available to flip, they will simply flip 1 of those.

    All these icons serve the same purpose for the AI: They simply add 1 card from the top of
    the Future Scheme Draw Pile, faceup on top of their discard pile.

    This icon indicates that the AI will dismiss the Townsfolk Card currently adjacent to their Viscount. The
    card is removed from the game and they gain the immediate effect on the top right of the card. Unlike
    when human players dismiss Townsfolk, the AI does not gain the Icons from these cards to help fund
    their actions.

    This icon is the AI's "Primary Focus". When told to take this action, refer to the top left of the AI's Player
    Board as to what that action is.
    For example, the Cleric AI's Primary Focus is to transcribe a Manuscript.

    When the AI's Draw Pile runs out, they will likely have already dropped off 1 card from their
    Player Board, leaving only 2 cards on their Player Board when shuffling. This is intended.

28
solo play rules: primary actions

       When constructing Buildings, the AI always wants to place their left-most Building (that they can afford)
       from their Player Board, onto the left-most (in clockwise direction) available Building Spot of the Main
       Board (where their Viscount currently stands). The AI gains effects from Building Spots and Links, just
like human players. The AI cannot cross the River to place Buildings either.

When resolving an effect to immediately construct a Building for free (such as from a Manuscript), they will first
attempt to construct it on the left-most (in clockwise direction) available Building Spot of the Main Board, where
their Viscount currently stands. If that Building Spot is taken, they will continue moving clockwise around the
Main Board (even crossing Rivers) until they find an available Building Spot. Only if all Building Spots are taken,
will they forfeit this effect.

       When taking a Noble action to place Workers in the Castle, the AI can do this from the outside path. They
       simply place their Workers into the first tier of the Main Board Segment where their Viscount currently
       stands. The AI always wants to place as many Workers as possible. Note on the AI Player Board, that the
AI will never attempt to place a single Worker for their action. When given the chance to bump Workers, the AI
will always target you. The AI can gain the Castle Leader Card for the bonus 5 VP at the game's end, but they
gain no benefit from the increased hand limit. If the AI has multiple groups of 3 or more Workers on the first tier
to resolve, they always resolve in clockwise order from the section adjacent to their Viscount. If given a choice of
rewards on the second tier of the Castle, they AI always takes the first option.

When resolving an effect to place Workers for free (such as from a Manuscript), they always place those Workers
into the first tier of the Main Board Segment where their Viscount currently stands.

       When transcribing Manuscripts, the AI can do this from the outside path. They focus on the Manuscript
       from the Main Board Segment where their Viscount currently stands. If the AI gains a Cleric Bonus Card,
       it collects it just like a human player would.

When resolving an effect to transcribe a Manuscript for free (such as from a Manuscript), they will first attempt to
transcribe the Manuscript from the Main Board Segment where their Viscount currently stands. If that Manuscript
cannot be taken, due to the restrictions of the effect, they will continue moving clockwise around the Main Board
until they find a Manuscript they can collect. Only if none of the Manuscripts can be taken, will they forfeit this
effect.

                                                                          29
solo play rules: ai turns

At the start of the AI's turn, shift all cards on their Player
Board 1 space to the right (just like the standard game).
Next, turn over the top card from their Scheme Card Draw
Pile, placing it into the left space of their Player Board.
After doing so, simply carry out all the effects listed on the
card from top-to-bottom. Note that the Icons at the top of
each card do not indicate an effect. They are simply there to
help the AI fund their actions.

For example, on their first turn, the AI would have started by
dismissing the Townsfolk Card from their current location
(for this example, we decided that it would have given them
1 Virtue). Next they would have moved their Viscount 2
spaces clockwise around the outside path of the Main Board.
Finally, they would have attempted to place Workers.
However, they only had 2 Noble Icons and no Gold, so
instead they would have flipped 1 Debt and gained another
Virtue (the second option at the bottom of the Scheme Card).

On their second turn, they played a Scheme Card with a
Criminal Icon. As the card instructs, they gain 1 Corruption
for each Criminal Icon on their Player Board (1). Next, they
gained the top card from their Future Scheme Draw Pile,
placing it faceup onto their discard pile. After this, their
Viscount moved 1 space and attempted their Primary Focus.
For the Cleric AI, this was transcribing a Manuscript. The
Manuscript on their current Main Board Segment only
required 3 Cleric Icons. They had 3 on their Player Board
 (including the Criminal and their Guildhall).
 They collected the Manuscript, placing it
 alongside their Player Board and gained
 another Future Scheme Card from its

 30 immediate effect.
solo play rules: end game and ai scoring

The game ends the same way as the standard game, keeping in mind that the AI will always take the final turn.

The AI scores Victory Points in the exact same way as human players. However, it also gains                        1
1 VP per leftover resource. Players are reminded of this on the AI's Player Board.

To win against the AI, you need to score more Victory Points than them. If you want a challenge, see if you can
beat all 4 different AI opponents.

If you wish to increase the difficulty of any AI opponent, try shuffling 1, 2 or 3 Future Scheme Cards into their
Scheme Draw Pile during Setup.

                                                                                                                   31
quick reference for effects                          Gain 1 Corruption

    Unless specified, all effects are mandatory      Gain 1 Virtue

        Gain 1 Ink Well Gain 1 Stone                 Rearrange cards on your Player Board in
        Gain 1 Gold Gain 1 Silver                    any order (this is always optional)
        Gain 1 Ink Well, Gold or Stone (not Silver)
                                                     Discard 1 card from either your hand or
        Gain 1 Debt (unpaid)                         Draw Pile. If you have no Draw Pile, you
                                                     may shuffle your discards to discard from it
        Gain 1 Deed (acquired)                       (this is always optional)

        Flip 1 unpaid Debt (to paid)                 Destroy 1 card from either your hand or
                                                     Draw Pile. If you have no Draw Pile, you
        Flip 1 acquired Deed (to approved)           may shuffle your discards to destroy from
                                                     it (this is always optional). Destroyed cards
        Flip 1 unpaid Debt or 1 acquired Deed        are removed from the game and you gain
        Gain 1 free Manuscript of 3 or 4 cost        Silver equal to their value
        from those visible on the Main Board
        This refers to any/all Buildings             Shuffle your discards back into your Draw
        Hire any 1 visible Townsfolk Card            Pile. Players must have at least 1 card in
        from the Main Board for free                 their discard pile to resolve this

                This refers to when any player       Move 1 of your Workers from 1 first tier
                resolves a collision.                section of the Castle, to an adjacent first tier
                                                     section (this is always optional)

                                                     Place the indicated number of Workers for
                                                     free on any 1 first tier section of the Castle

                                                     Place the indicated Building for free on any
                                                     available Building Spot
