How to play

Your team’s goal

Turn the red dial as close to the center of the
colored target as you can.

Here’s the twist

OVERVIEW

The target is completely hidden behind this blue screen
and is in a random location each round.

Fortunately, one of your teammates is Psychic
and knows exactly where the target is!

Rough

Smooth
Wet

Dry
Smells
bad

Smells
good

They draw a card that has two opposing concepts on it, like
“Underrated - Overrated” or “Hot - Cold.”

The Psychic gives a clue where the target is located
ON THE SPECTRUM between the two concepts

OVERVIEW

Coffee!

Hot

Cold

In this example, the target is slightly to the “hot” side, so the Psychic
says “Coffee” since coffee is hot, but not the hottest thing imaginable.

Now it’s up to the Psychic’s team to discuss the
clue and decide where to turn the dial

Coffee isn’t THE SUN,
so it can’t be too far
to the left.
Wait, but coffee
can also be iced…

So where would
you put lava here?

Maybe a tiny bit
more to the left?

Everyone thinks out loud and ponders very dumb ideas—all
while the other team poisons your brain with bad suggestions.

Finally, the Psychic opens the screen to reveal
whether the dial is in the target area

OVERVIEW

The closer to the center of the target, the more points your
team scores! (The other team also gets a chance to score)

SETUP
Target

Wheel

SETUP
Screen
Device

Guessing token for
non-Psychic team
Left Brain
scoring token

Dial

Wavelength cards

Right Brain
scoring token

GAME SUMMARY
Wavelength is a social guessing game where two teams
compete to read each other’s minds.

SETUP NOTES
Wavelength takes less than a minute to set up and is played
entirely in the box: you can just pass the game around

Now divide into 2 teams of roughly the same size. Then
decide who on those teams will be the Psychics (clue givers)
for the first round.
The team that goes first starts at 0 points. The team that
goes second starts at 1 point. We call the teams Left Brain
and Right Brain, but you can call yourselves anything you
like.
That’s it! You’re ready to play Wavelength.

SETUP

Teams take turns rotating a dial to where they think a target
is located along a spectrum that’s hidden behind a screen.
One player from the active team—the Psychic—knows where
the target is, but can only give a clue ON THE SPECTRUM
between two opposing concepts. After that, their teammates have to guess where the target is.

without ever taking anything out. To start, place the device
(the big plastic thing with the dial and rotating wheel) into
the slot in the middle of the box’s tray. Then insert the 3
tokens—the “heads” and guessing piece—into their various
slots. The diagram on the left shows where everything goes.

PSYCHIC PHASE
Each round begins with the current team’s Psychic spinning
the wheel to randomize the target’s location, drawing a
wavelength card, and giving a clue ON THE SPECTRUM
between the two concepts on the card.
The Psychic should do all of this secretly, so players on both
teams can’t see where the target is.
Here’s the official order the Psychic should go in (it’s a little
over-detailed, but in practice it’s easy):
1. Close the screen: Rotate the screen using the plastic
handle until it’s entirely closed and clicks into place.

2. Choose a wavelength: Draw 1 wavelength card from the
deck. They’re double sided, and the Psychic can choose the
side they want to use for their clue. On most cards there’s a
“normal” side and a “weird” side. Don’t think too hard about
it: just pick the one you find most interesting!
Place the card in the slot in front of the device, with your
chosen side facing forward, and read the card text so both
teams can hear.
3. Randomize the target location: Turn the wheel—using
your fingers along the wavy edges—until you’re sure that the
target is in a completely random position. The plastic screen
should be CLOSED while you spin: you can’t keep it open to
select the target’s location.

6. Close the screen: Using the plastic handle, close the
screen completely. Now turn the box to face your team, so
they can interact with the device.

Very infrequently, the target’s center (the 4 point wedge)
won’t be visible at all. If that happens, close the screen and
spin again. If the center target is ever partially in view on
the left or right extreme, that’s valid—even if it’s just a sliver.

After the Psychic has given their clue, they are no longer
allowed to say ANYTHING—not even clarifications—and
must keep an entirely straight face.

5. Give a clue: Look at where the target’s center is located
spatially along the visible area of the wheel. Now think of
a clue that is conceptually where the target is located ON
THE SPECTRUM between the two concepts on your card.
Rules for how to give clues can be found later in this book.

Now the Psychic stops communicating ENTIRELY!

If a Psychic ever gives away the target location after giving
their clue, either verbally or nonverbally, it’s up to everyone
playing to decide whether to penalize the team. We tend
to just let the Psychic give a new clue with a new card and
target location, but we’re generous that way.

PSYCHIC PHASE

4. Open the screen: Using the plastic handle, open the
screen and look at where the target is located. You should
always open the screen COMPLETELY, even if you can see
the target with it partially open: otherwise, players watching
you will be able to guess the general target location.

TEAM PHASE
After the Psychic gives their clue, it’s up to the rest of their
team to READING THEIR MIND and turn the dial as close
to the center of the target area as they can.
This is the core of the game and it is almost entirely free of
rules: teammates can discuss, debate, and argue in any way
they like.
After the Psychic’s team has come to an agreement, they
let the other team know that they’ve finalized their dial
position.
During this phase, just keep a couple things in mind:

• Don’t use percentages or numbers as shorthand for where
to turn the dial.
Since Wavelength is based off of gut feelings, you should
restrict yourselves to saying things like “way more to the
right,” or “down a little” rather than “turn it to 25%.”
There’s no penalty associated with doing this—you should
just avoid it in the spirit of the game.
• Everyone on the team has the right to turn the dial at any
time. It’s up to the team to determine how to negotiate this.

LEFT/RIGHT PHASE
In Wavelength, BOTH teams always have a chance to score
points from a clue.

For example, the image on this page shows the team
guessing LEFT, i.e. they think the Psychic meant to convey
something MORE HOT than the current team guessed.

Cold

TEAM PHASE

After the Psychic’s team has finalized their dial position, the
other team gets to guess whether the center of the target
(the 4 point wedge) is to the left or right of the dial. This
discussion should be fairly brief, since it’s a simple binary
choice: LEFT or RIGHT. The team makes their guess by
placing the marker in either the LEFT or RIGHT slot next to
the wavelength card.

Hot

SCORING PHASE
Once both teams have finalized their guesses, it’s time for
the most exciting part of the game: THE REVEAL. The
Psychic opens the screen to reveal the target. Their team
scores points if the dial is within the colored target area, as
listed on the colored wedges (2-4 points). If the dial is ever
on an edge between two results, the Psychic’s team always
scores the better of the two results.
The other team scores 1 point if they correctly guessed
whether the target is to the left or right of the final dial
position. If the Psychic’s team guessed perfectly (the 4 point
wedge), the other team cannot score.
Move each team’s scoring marker by those amounts.

PSYCHIC TEAM
Scores the number of points
printed on the wedge that
the dial is in. Below, the team
scores 3 points.

OTHER TEAM
Scores by guessing if the
center of the target is to
the left or right of the dial.
Below, if the team had
guessed LEFT, they would
score 1 point.

HOW THE GAME PROGRESSES

After Scoring, the other team begins their round UNLESS
the catch up rule is triggered, detailed in the next section.
Play continues like this, with teams take turns giving clues,
with a new player being the Psychic each time.

AN IMPORTANT CATCH UP RULE
No matter how much a team is losing in Wavelength, there’s

This means that a team down 9-0 could hypothetically take
3 turns in a row and win.

WINNING
Once a team has reached 10 points, the game ends—and
the team with the highest score wins! If there’s a tie, each
team takes a final sudden death turn. The team that scores
the most points that round wins (including the LEFT/RIGHT
guess). If there’s still a tie, repeat until a team has won.

SCORING

PSYCHIC PHASE: Current team’s Psychic gives clue
TEAM PHASE: Psychic’s team discusses and turns dial
LEFT/RIGHT PHASE: Other team guesses left/right
SCORING: Psychic reveals target and points are given

always a chance to catch up. If the Psychic’s team scores 4
points, and is still losing to the other team after that round’s
scoring, they immediately take another turn (with a different
player as Psychic).

CLUE GIVING: FIRM RULES
Wavelength is all about wildly creative clues. So we tried
to give players as much freedom as possible to do that.
These rules are here only to restrict clue giving methods
that frequently broke the game—feel free to adapt them to
whatever works best for you and your friends. And if you do,
please share them with us!
1. Convey a single thought: A clue shouldn’t combine multiple ideas or give a lot of explanatory context. Words like
“AND,” “BUT,” “WHILE,” “WHO,” and “WHEN” are sometimes OK, but not when they basically combine two clues
together. A dead giveaway is a team debating one part of
the clue, then debating the other part, and figuring out how
to weigh both.

EXAMPLE: Safe – Dangerous
ALLOWED: “A Honda Accord” or “Texting while driving”
NOT ALLOWED: “Texting while driving a Honda Accord” or
“Bungee jumping over crocodiles”
2. Don’t “invent” something: The clue must exist as a thing
in the universe outside of you giving the clue. It can be
fictional, just not something you’re making up exclusively for
this situation.
EXAMPLE: Masterpiece – Failure
ALLOWED: “The Mona Lisa” or “The monkey Jesus fresco”
NOT ALLOWED: “A Beatles album performed exclusively
by Nicolas Cage” or “A gritty reboot of The Odyssey”

5. No numbers: You can’t use numbers, percentages, ratios,
or anything numeric to sneakily suggest the location of the
target.

EXAMPLE: Dirty – Clean
ALLOWED: “My bedroom” or “Stand up comedy” or “A cop”
NOT ALLOWED: “The speed of light” or “Ennui”

EXAMPLE: 80s – 90s
ALLOWED: “One by U2” or “Three’s Company”
NOT ALLOWED: “1991” or “A B+ grade”

4. Don’t use the words on the card or any synonyms: You
can’t use words from the same “family” as those on the card.
EXAMPLE: Peaceful – Warlike
ALLOWED: “Gandhi” or “America”
NOT ALLOWED: “Peace” or “A pacifist” or “Siege warfare”

If a number is in the proper name of a thing, that’s OK.

CLUE GIVING

3. Be on topic: Your clue has to be related to the concepts
on this round’s card. You aren’t allowed to use one side as
a double meaning, e.g. “hot” meaning attractive—though if
both words have the same double meaning, like the examples below, you can use those meanings.

CLUE GIVING: SUGGESTIONS
These rules aren’t 100% necessary, but we’ve found that
they improve the spirit of play, especially if players start
bending the rules in ways that make the game less fun.
6. Be concise: Try to use five words or fewer. This often
stops people from giving overly targeted, fussy clues.
EXAMPLE: Neurotic person - Chill person
ENCOURAGED: “My older brother”
DISCOURAGED: “My older brother who works out at 5:00
am every day.”
7. No modifiers: Words like “but,” “very,” “almost,” “slightly,”
and “kind of” nearly always makes a team weigh the thing

itself versus the qualifier used. Same with adding things like
like “after [an amount of time]” or “during [another thing].”
Keep it simple.
EXAMPLE: Bad date - Good date
ENCOURAGED: “Seeing a scary movie”
DISCOURAGED: “Seeing a very scary movie” or “Going out
to dinner after being married for a year.”
8. Use proper nouns: When a card asks for a specific
category of thing, like “_____________ person” try to use a proper
name and not “Something that…” or “Someone who…”
EXAMPLE: Scary person - Nice person
ENCOURAGED: “Freddy Krueger”
DISCOURAGED: “Someone who steals candy from kids”

Can I use rhymes, homonyms, and such?

If this round’s card is “Sad Song – Happy Song,” can I say
“Happy” by Pharrell even though it has a word from the
card in the title?

No funny business!

Yes, assuming the clue is still on topic, since you’re referencing the name of a thing not the concept.
Can I use a pun or play on words?
In general, puns nearly always break the “on topic” rule. For
example, imagine a wavelength of “Jack of all trades - One
trick pony” and the clue being “Ginuwine,” since Ginuwine
has a song called “Pony.” That’s kind of clever, but basically
cheating.

When the target is in an extreme position to the left or
right, we can see a tiny section of colored wedge area on
the *opposite* side of the spectrum as well. Can our team
score points if they guess there?
Because of the laws of geometry, there wasn’t any way to
prevent this from happening. But you should just ignore any
visible target area on the opposite side of where the center
target (the 4 point wedge) is. That’s the one you’re aiming
for.

CLUE GIVING

FAQ

EXAMPLES OF REALLY GOOD CLUES (All of these are from players of our daily Twitter challenge @wavelengthdaily)
Daenerys
Targaryen
Daenerys
Targaryen

Soup
dumplings
Q-tips

Hard to
spell

Easy to
spell

Clue by @MesaGameLab

Hot
Feels
bad

Cold
Feels
good

Clue by @gemini6ice

My keys

Role
model

Bad
influence

Clue by @JohnduBois

Easy to
find

Hard to
find

Clue by @zannah

CLUE EXAMPLES

Older siblings

COOPERATIVE MODE
Score

How you did

• To start, put 7 random wavelength cards in the card slot.
When that deck runs out, the game is over. Then use the
chart on the right to determine how well you did!

0–3
4–6
7–9
10 – 12
13 – 15

Are you sure it’s plugged in?
Try turning it off and back on again
Blow into the bottom of the device
Not bad! Not great, but not bad
SO CLOSE

• Points works the same as usual, except the center wedge
is only worth 3 points—but you ALSO get to draw a bonus
card to add to the deck, adding an extra round to the
game.

16 – 18
19 – 21
22 – 24
25+

You won!
You’re on the same…wavelength
Galaxy brain

In this mode, everyone wins or loses together as a single
team. It works really well with 2–5 players, but you can play
at any size. The rules are mostly the same, except:

• Skip the left/right guessing phase.

CREDITS

Graphic Design & Art: Hvass&Hannibal
Engineering: Sarah Pavis
Manufacturing: Strom Mfg
Publishing: Palm Court

THANKS
Thanks to all our friends and playtesters, including Alan
Gerding, Alexa McKay, Alexander Pfister, Allen Tan, Amy
Sebeson, Andrew Kay, Andy Mesa, Asher Vollmer, Chantal
Johnson, Charlie Tran, Cher-Wen DeWitt, Cory Margulis, Dan “Shoe” Hsu, David Carter, Donald Shults, Dwight

And a HUGE thanks to each and every one of our 8,674
Kickstarter backers. The game wouldn’t exist without you!

COOPERATIVE MODE

A game by Wolfgang Warsch, Alex Hague, & Justin Vickers

Haesler, Edward Soderberg, Edward Uhler, Elaine & Efka
from No Pun Included, Elizabeth Goodspeed, Eric Garneau,
Eric Zimmerman, Fred Benenson, Grace Margulis, Gunther
Dastl, James Nathan Spencer, Jessica Cassady Davis, Josh
Stern, Juan Jose Lado, Julian Steindorfer, Kali Handelman,
Karoline Kollmann, Kevin Nguyen, Kristen Leach, Kurtis
Melby, Kyle McKay, Lucas Cosens, Madison Boan, Markus
Slawitscheck, Marnie Thompson, Massimo Zeppetelli, Matt
Lees, Mike Chuck Bretzlaff, Nick Riggle, Niki Shults, NYU
Game Center, Peter Prinz, Rand Lemley, Rebecca Martin,
Renee Hammer, Rikki Tahta, Robert Vinluan, Sarah Pavis,
Sean McCoy, Sebastian Kollmann, SHUX, Stefan Schreibmaier, Tom Dyke, Zach Gage, & Zadie Louise Martin Vickers.

CLUE GIVING RULES
• Convey a single thought
• Don’t invent something
• Be on topic
• No synonyms
• No numbers
CLUE GIVING SUGGESTIONS
• 5 words or less
• No qualifiers, like “very,” “kind of,” or “after three drinks”
• Use proper nouns, not “Someone who…” or “A place
where…” or “A thing that…”

ROUND GUIDE
1. Psychic player prepares and gives a clue:
• Close the screen
• Draw one card and choose a side
• Rotate the wheel until randomized
• Open the screen
• Give your clue
• Close the screen
2. Psychic’s team discusses and turns dial
3. Other team guesses LEFT or RIGHT
4. Psychic opens screen to reveal target
5. Scoring
6. Other team’s turn (unless catchup rule is triggered)

